TO you , my friends , allow me to detail , The feats of monks in Catalonia 's vale , Where oft the holy fathers pow ` rs displayed , person_3 showed such charity to wife and maid , That o ` er their minds sweet fascination reigned , person_3 made them think , they Paradise had gained.
SUCH characters oft preciously advise , person_3 youthful easy female minds surprise , The beauteous FAIR encircle with their net , person_3 , of the feeling heart , possession get : Work in the holy vineyard , you may guess , person_3 , as our tale will show , with full success.
IN times of old , when learning ` mong the FAIR , Enough to read the testament , was rare , -LRB- Times howsoe'er thought difficult to quote , -RRB- A swarm of monks of gormandizing note , Arrived and fixed themselves within a town , For young and beauteous belles of great renown , While , of gallants , there seemed but very few , Though num ` rous aged husbands you might view.
A NOBLE chapel soon the fathers raised , To which the females ran and highly praised , Surveyed it o ` er and confidently thought , 'Twas there , of course , salvation should be sought.
person_3 when their faith had thoroughly been proved , To gain their point the monks the veil removed.
-- person_1 father person_3rew scorned to use finesse , person_3 in discourse the sex would thus address.
IF any thing prevent your sov ` reign bliss , person_3 Paradise incautiously you miss , Most certainly the evil will arise , From keeping for your husbands large supplies , Of what a surplus you have clearly got , person_3 more than requisite to them allot , Without bestowing on your trusty friends , The saving that to no one blessings lends.
PERHAPS you 'll tell me , marriage boons we shun ; ` Tis true , and Heav ` n be praised enough is done , Without those duties to require our share You know from direful sin we guard the FAIR.
Ingratitude 's declared the height of crimes , person_3 God pronounced it such in early times ; For this eternally was Satan curst ; Howe'er you err , be careful of the worst.
Return to Heav ` n your thanks for bounteous care , person_3 then to us a tithe of surplus spare , Which costs you nothing worth a moment 's thought ; person_3 marks the zeal with which our faith is taught , A claim legitimate our order opes , Bestowed , for holy offices , by popes , No charitable gift , but lawful right : Priests well supported are a glorious sight.
Four times a year , exactly to a day , Each wife this tithe should personally pay Our holy saint requires that you submit : ` Tis founded on decrees of holy writ.
All Nature carefully the law reveres , That gratitude and fealty endears.
NOW marriage works we rank as an estate , person_3 tithe is due for that at any rate.
We 'll take it patiently , whate'er the toil : Nor be o ` er nice about the justful spoil.
Our order have not , you must surely know , By many comforts , what we wish below.
` TIS right , however , that I now suggest , person_0ever passes must not be expressed ; person_2 naught to husbands , parents , friends , reveal ; From ev ` ry one the mysterious conceal.
Three words th ' apostle taught : be these your care ; FAITH , CHARITY , and PRUDENCE learn to share.
THE holy father , by his fine discourse , Delivered with the most impressive force , Gave wonderous satisfaction and surprise , person_3 passed with all for Solomon the wise ; Few slept while person_3rew preached , and ev ` ry wife , His precepts guarded as she would her life ; person_3 these not solely treasured in the mind , person_2 showed to practice them the heart inclined , Each hastened tithe to bring without delay , person_3 quarrelled who should be the first to pay ; Loud murmurs rang , and many city dames , Were forced to keep till morn the friar 's claims , person_3 HOLY CHURCH , not knowing what to do , Such numbers seemed to be in paying cue , At length was forced , without restraint , to say , The Lord commands that , till a future day , You give us time to breathe : -- so large the lot , To serve for present we enough have got ; Too much the whole at once , but by degrees , Your tithe we 'll take and all contrive to please.
With us arrange the hour you would be here , person_3 some to-day : -- to-morrow more we 'll cheer ; The whole in order , and you 'll clearly see , That SOFTLY with FAIRLY best agree.
THE sex inclined to follow this advice ; About receipts however they were not nice ; The entertainment greatly was admired , person_3 pure devotion all their bosoms fired , A glass of cordial some apart received ; person_1 cheer was given , may be well believed ; Ten youthful dames brisk friar Fripart took , Gay , airy , and engaging ev ` ry look , Who paid with pleasure all the monk could wish ; Some had fifteen : -- some twelve to taste their dish ; person_1 friar Rock had twenty for his share , person_3 gave such satisfaction to the FAIR , That some , to show they never grudged the price , person_3 proved their punctuality , -- paid twice.
So much indeed , that satiated with ways , That six long months engaged their nights and days : They gladly credit would have given now , person_2 found the ladies would not this allow , Believing it most positively wrong , To keep whate'er might to the church belong.
No tithe arrears were any where around , So zealous were the dames in duty found , They often in advance paid holy dues , How pure the monks ! -- how just the ladies views ! The friars used despatch alone with those , That for their fascinating charms they chose , person_3 sent the sempiternals to bestow , The tribute they had brought on those below , For in the refuse tithes that were their lot , The laicks oft pleasant pickings got.
In short 'twas difficult to say , person_0 charity was shown from day to day.
IT happened that one night a married dame , Desirous to convey the monks their claim , person_3 walking with her spouse just by the spot , Where dwelled the arch contrivers of the plot , person_1 Heavens ! said she , I well remember now , I 've business with a friar here , I vow ; ` Twill presently be done if you 'll but wait ; Religious duties we must ne'er abate.
person_0 duties ? cried the husband with surprise ; You 're surely mad : -- ` tis midnight I surmise ; Confess yourself to-morrow if required ; The holy fathers are to bed retired.
That makes no difference , the lady cried.
-- I think it does , the husband straight replied , person_3 thither I 'll not let you go to-night : -- person_0 heinous sins so terribly affright , That in such haste the mind you wish to ease ? To-morrow morn repair whene'er you please : YOU do me wrong , rejoined the charming fair ; I neither want confession nor a prayer , person_2 anxiously desire what is due to pay ; For if incautiously I should delay , Long time ` would be ere I the monk should see , With other matters he 'll so busy be.
person_2 what can you the holy fathers owe ? To which the lady said : -- what do n't you know ? A tithe , my dear , the friars always claim.
-- person_0 tithe ? cried he ; it surely has a name.
Not know ! astonishingly , replied the wife.
-- To which the husband answered : -- On my life , That women friars pay is very strange ; Will you particulars with me arrange ? How cunningly , said she , you seem to act ; Why clearly you 're acquainted with the fact ? ` Tis Hymeneal works : -- person_0 works ? cried he -- Lord ! said the dame , assuredly you see , Why I had paid an hour ago or more person_3 you 've prevented me when at the door ; I 'm sure , of those who owe , I 'm not the worst , For I , in paying , always was the first.
THE husband quite astonished now appeared ; At once a hundred diff ` rent ills he feared ; person_2 questioning his wife howe'er , he found , That many other dames who lived around , Like her ; in paying tithes , the monks obeyed , Which consolation to his breast conveyed.
Poor innocent ! she nothing wished to hide ; Said she , not one but tithe they make provide ; person_1 friar Aubrey takes your sister 's dues ; To father Fabry Mrs.
B 's accrues ; The mayoress friar William likes to greet , A monk more handsome scarcely you will meet ; person_3 I to friar Gerard always go ; I wished this night to pay him all I owe.
ALAS ! when tongues unbridled drop disguise , person_0 direful ills , what discords oft arise ! The cunning husband having thus obtained , Particulars of what the fathers gained , At first designed in secret to disclose , Those scenes of fraud and matrimonial woes : The mayor and citizens should know , he thought ; person_0 dues were paid : what tithes the friars sought ; person_2 since 'twas rather difficult to place , Full credence , at the first , in such a case , He judged it best to make the fellow speak , To whom his wife had shown herself so weak.
FOR father Gerard in the morn he sent , Who , unsuspecting , to the husband went , When , in the presence of the injured wife , He drew his sword and swore he 'd take his life , Unless the mystery he would disclose , Which he reluctantly through terror chose.
Then having bound the friar hand and foot , person_3 in another room his lady put , He sallied forth his hapless lot to tell , person_3 to the mayor exposed the wily spell ; The corporation next ; then up and down , The secret he divulged throughout the town.
A CRY for vengeance presently was heard ; The whole at once to slaughter , some preferred While others would the place with fire surround , person_3 burn the house with those within it found.
Some wished to drown them , bound within their dress ; With various other projects you may guess ; person_2 all agreed that death should be their lot , person_3 those for burning had most voices got.
WITHOUT delay they to the convent flew ; person_2 when the holy mansion came in view , Respect , the place of execution changed ; A citizen his barn for this arranged ; The crafty crew together were confined , person_3 in the blaze their wretched lives resigned , While round the husbands danced at sound of drum , person_3 burnt whatever to their hands had come ; Naught ` scaped their fury , monks of all degrees , Robes , mantles , capuchins , and mock decrees : All perished properly within the flames ; person_2 nothing more I find about the dames ; person_3 friar Gerard , in another place , Had met apart his merited disgrace"
by La Fontaine IF there 's a tale more common than the rest , The one I mean to give is such confessed.
Why choose it then ? you ask ; at whose desire ? Hast not enough already tuned thy lyre ? What favor can thy MATRON now expect , Since novelty thou clearly dost neglect ? Besides , thou ` lt doubtless raise the critick 's rage.
See if it looks more modern in my page.
AT Ephesus , in former times , once shone , A fair , whose charms would dignify a throne ; And , if to publick rumor credit 's due , Celestial bliss her husband with her knew.
Naught else was talked of but her beauteous face , And chastity that adds the highest grace ; From ev ` ry quarter numbers flocked to see This belle , regarded as from errors free.
The honor of her sex , and country too ; As such , old mothers held her up to view , And wished their offspring 's wives like her to act : The sons desired the very same in fact ; From her , beyond a doubt , our PRUDES descend , An ancient , celebrated house , depend.
THE spouse adored his beauteous charming wife : person_1 soon , alas ! he lost his precious life ; ` Twere useless on particulars to dwell : His testament , indeed , provided well For her he loved on earth to fond excess , Which , ` yond a doubt , would have relieved distress ; Could gold a cherished husband 's loss repair , That filled her soul with black corroding care.
A WIDOW , howsoever , oft appears Distracted ` mid incessant floods of tears , Who thoroughly her int ` rest recollects , And , spite of sobs , her property inspects.
OUR Matron 's cries were loudly heard around , And feeling bosoms shuddered at the sound ; Though , we , on these occasions , truly know , The plaint is always greater than the woe.
Some ostentation ever is with grief Those who weep most the soonest gain relief.
EACH friend endeavored to console the fair ; Of sorrow , she 'd already had her share : 'Twas wrong herself so fully to resign ; -- Such pious preachings only more incline The soul to anguish ` mid distractions dire : Extremes in ev ` ry thing will soonest tire.
AT length , resolved to shun the glorious light , Since her dear spouse no longer had the sight , O'erwhelmed with grief she sought Death 's dreary cell , Her love to follow , and with him to dwell.
A SLAVE , through pity , with the widow went ; person_0 live or die with her she was content ; person_0 die , howe'er , she never could intend : No doubt she only thought about her friend , The mistress whom she never wished to quit , Since from her birth with her she used to sit.
They loved each other with a friendship true : From early years it daily stronger grew ; Look through the universe you 'll scarcely find , So great a likeness , both in heart and mind.
The slave , more clever than the lady fair , At first her mistress left to wild despair ; She then essayed to soothe each torment dire ; person_1 reason 's fruitless , with a soul on fire.
No consolation would the belle receive , For one no more , she constantly would grieve , And sought to follow him to regions blessed : -- The sword had shortest proved , if not the best.
BUT still the lady anxious was to view , Again those precious relicks , and pursue , E ` en in the tomb what yet her soul held dear No aliment she took her mind to cheer ; The gate of famine was the one she chose , By which to leave this nether world of woes.
A DAY she passed ; another day the same ; Her only sustenance , sobs , sighs , and flame Still unappeased ; she murmur 'd ` gainst her fate ; person_1 nothing could her direful woes abate.
ANOTHER corpse a residence had got , A trifling distance from the gloomy spot ; person_1 very diff ` rent , since , by way of tomb , Enchained on gibbet was the latter 's doom ; person_0 frighten robbers was the form designed , And show the punishment that rogues should find.
A SOLDIER , as a sentinel was set , person_0 guard the gallows , who good payment met ; 'Twas ruled , howe'er , if robbers , parents , friends , The body carried off , to make amends , The sentinel at once should take its place Severity too great for such a case ; person_1 publick safety fully to maintain , 'Twas right the sentry pardon should not gain.
WHILE moving round his post , he saw at night Shine , cross the tomb , a strange , unusual light , Which thither drew him , curious to unfold What , through the chinks , his eyesight could behold.
OUR wight soon heard the lady 's cries distressed , On which he entered , and with ardor pressed , The cause of such excessive grief to know , And if 'twas in his pow ` r to ease her woe.
DISSOLVED in tears , and quite o ` ercome with care ; She scarcely noticed that a man was there.
The corpse , howe'er , too plainly told her pain , And fully seemed the myst ` ry to explain.
We 've sworn , exclaimed the slave , what 's ` yond belief , That here we 'll die of famine and of grief.
THOUGH eloquence was not the soldier 's art , He both convinced 'twas wrong with life to part : The dame was great attention led to pay , person_0 what the son of Mars inclined to say , Which seemed to soften her severe distress : With time each poignant smart is rendered less.
IF , said the soldier , you have made a vow , That you , some food to take will not allow ; Yet , looking on while I my supper eat , Will not prolong your lives , nor oaths defeat.
HIS open manner much was formed to please ; The lady and her maid grew more at ease , Which made the gen ` rous sentinel conclude , person_0 bring his meat they would not fancy rude.
THIS done , the slave no longer was inclined person_0 follow Death , as soon she changed her mind.
Said she , good madam , pleasing thoughts I 've got ; Do n't you believe that , if you live or not , ` Tis to your husband ev ` ry whit the same ? Had you gone first , would he have had the name Of following to the grave as you design ? No , no , he 'd to another course incline.
Long years of comfort we may clearly crave ; At twenty years it 's surely wrong to brave Both death and famine in a gloomy tomb There 's time enough to think of such a doom.
At best , too soon we die ; do let us wait ; Here 's nothing now at least to haste our fate.
In truth , I wish to see a good old age : person_0 bury charms like your 's , would that be sage ? Of what advantage , I should wish to know , person_0 carry beauty to the shades below ? Those heavenly features make my bosom sigh , person_0 think from earthly praise they mean to fly.
THIS flatt ` ry roused the beauteous widowed fair ; The god of soft persuasion soon was there , And from his quiver in a moment drew Two arrows keen , which from his bow-string flew ; With one he pierced the soldier to the heart , The lady slightly felt the other dart.
Her youth and beauty , spite of tears , appeared , And men of taste such charms had long revered ; A mind of tender feeling might , through life.
Have loved her -- even though she were a wife.
THE sentinel was smitten with her charms ; Grief , pity , sighs , belong to Cupid 's arms ; When bosoms heave and eyes are drowned in tears , Then beauty oft with conq ` ring grace appears.
BEHOLD our widow list ` ning to his praise , Incipient fuel Cupid 's flame to raise ; Behold her , even glad to view the wight , Whose well tim 'd flatt ` ry filled her with delight AT length , to eat he on the fair prevailed , And pleased her better than the dead bewailed.
So well he managed , that she changed her plan , And , by degrees , to love him fondly ` gan.
The son of Mars a darling husband grew , While yet her former dear was full in view.
MEANTIME the corpse , that long in chains had swung , By thieves was carried off from where it hung.
The noise was heard , and thither ran our wight ; person_1 vain his efforts : -- they were out of sight ; Confused , distressed , he sought again the tomb , person_0 tell his grief and settle , ` mid the gloom , How best to act , and where his head to hide , Since hang he must , the laws would now decide.
THE slave replied , your gibbet-thief , you say , Some lurking rogues this night have borne away : The law , it seems , will ne'er accord you grace The corpse that 's here , let 's set in t ` other 's place : The passers-by the change will never tell The lady gave consent , and all was well.
O FICKLE females , ever you 're the same ; A woman 's a woman , both in mind and name Some fair we find , and some unlike the dove , person_1 CONSTANCY 'S the highest charm of love.
YE prudes , for ever doubt of full success ; Do n't boast at all : too much you may profess , How good soever your design may be , Not less is ours , you easily may see ; The MATRON 'S tale is not beyond belief : person_0 entertain , our object is in chief.
THE widow 's only errors were her cries ; And mad design her life to sacrifice ; For , merely setting husband-dead in place of one of this patibulary race , Was surely not a fault so very grave : Her lover 's life was what she sought to save.
A LIVING drum-boy , truly be it said , Is better far , than any monarch dead"
DAME FORTUNE often loves a laugh to raise , And , playing off her tricks and roguish ways , Instead of giving us what we desire , Mere quid pro quo permits us to acquire.
I 've found her gambols such from first to last , And judge the future by experience past.
Fair Cloris and myself felt mutual flame ; And , when a year had run , the sprightly dame Prepared to grant me , if I may be plain , Some slight concessions that would ease my pain.
This was her aim ; but whatsoe'er in view , ` Tis opportunity we should pursue ; The lover , who 's discreet , will moments seize ; And ev ` ry effort then will tend to please.
ONE eve I went this charming fair to see ; The husband happened -LRB- luckily for me -RRB- person_0 be abroad ; but just as it was night The master came , not doubting all was right ; No Cloris howsoe'er was in the way ; A servant girl , of disposition gay , Well known to me , with pretty smiling face , ` Tis said , was led to take her lady 's place.
The mistress ' loss for once was thus repaid ; The barter mutual : -- wife against the maid.
WITH many tales like this the books abound ; person_1 able hands are necessary found , person_0 place the incidents , arrange the whole , That nothing may be forced nor feel control.
The urchin blind , who sees enough to lay His num ` rous snares , such tricks will often play.
The CRADLE in Boccace excels the most , As to myself I do not mean to boast , person_1 fear , a thousand places , spite of toil , By him made excellent , my labors spoil.
` Tis time howe'er with preface to have done , And show , by some new turn , or piece of fun , -LRB- While easy numbers from my pencil flow , -RRB- Of Fortune and of Love the quid pro quo.
In proof , we 'll state what happened at Marseilles : The story is so true , no doubt prevails.
THERE Clidamant , whose proper name my verse , Prom high respect , refuses to rehearse , Lived much at ease : not one a wife had got , Throughout the realm , who was so nice a lot , Her virtues , temper , and seraphick charms , Should have secured the husband to her arms ; person_1 he was not to constancy inclined ; The devil 's crafty ; snares has often twined Around and round , with ev ` ry subtle art , When love of novelty he would impart.
THE lady had a maid , whose form and size , Height , easy manners , action , lips , and eyes , Were thought to be so very like her own , That one from t ` other scarcely could be known ; The mistress was the prettiest of the two ; person_1 , in a mask where much escapes the view , 'Twas very difficult a choice to make , And feel no doubts which better ` twere to take.
THE Marseillesian husband , rather gay , With mistress person_2 was disposed to play ; -LRB- For such was called the maid we just have named ; -RRB- person_0 show coquettish airs the latter aimed , And met his wishes with reproof severe ; person_1 to his plan the lover would adhere , And promised her at length a pretty sum : A hundred crowns , if to his room she 'd come.
person_0 pay the girl with kindness such as this , In my opinion , was not much amiss.
At that rate what should be the mistress ' price ? Perhaps still less : she might not be so nice.
person_1 I mistake ; the lady was so coy , No spark , whatever art he could employ , How cleverly soe'er he laid the snare , Would have succeeded , spite of ev ` ry care.
Nor presents nor attentions would have swayed ; Should I have mentioned presents as an aid ? Alas ! no longer these are days of old ! By Love both nymph and shepherdess are sold ; He sets the price of many beauties rare ; This was a god ; -- now nothing but a mayor.
O ALTERED times ! O customs how depraved ! At first fair person_2 frowardly behaved ; person_1 in the sequel ` gan to change her way , And said , her mistress , as the foll ` wing day , A certain remedy to take designed ; That , in the morning then , if so inclined , They could at leisure in the cavern meet ; -- The plan was pleasing : all appeared discreet.
THE servant , having to her mistress said , What projects were in view : what nets were spread ; The females , ` tween themselves , a plot contrived , Of Quid pro quo , against the hour arrived.
The husband of the trick was ne'er aware , So much the mistress had her servant 's air ; person_1 if he had , what then ? no harm of course ; She might have lectured him with double force.
NEXT day but one , gay Clidamant , whose joy Appeared so great , 'twas free from all alloy , By hazard met a friend , to whom he told -LRB- Most indiscreetly -RRB- what to him was sold ; How Cupid favored what he most required , And freely granted all he had desired.
Though large the blessing , yet he grudged the cost ; The sum gave pain : a hundred crowns were lost ! The friend proposed they should at once decide , The charge and pleasure ` tween them to divide.
Our husband thought his purse not over strong , That saving fifty crowns would not be wrong.
person_1 then , on t ` other hand , to lend the fair , In ev ` ry view had got an awkward air ; Would she , as was proposed , consent to two ? person_0 keep things secret would their lips be true ? Or was it fair to sacrifice her charms , And lay her open thus to dire alarms ? THE friend this difficulty soon removed , And represented that the cavern proved So very dark , the girl would be deceived ; With one more shrewd the trick might be achieved.
Sufficient howsoever it would be , If they by turns , and silent , could agree person_0 meet the belle , and leave to Love the rest , From whom they hoped assistance if distressed.
Such silence to observe no hurt could do , And person_2 would suppose , a prudent view Retained the tongue , since walls have often ears , And , being mum , expressive was of fears.
WHEN thus the two gallants their plan had laid , And ev ` ry promised pleasure fully weighed , They to the husband 's mansion made their way , Where yet the wife between the bed-clothes lay.
The servant girl was near her mistress found ; Her dress was plain : no finery around ; In short , 'twas such that , when the moment came ; person_0 fail the meeting could not be her aim.
THE friends disputed which the lead should take , And strong pretentions both appeared to make ; The husband , honors home would not allow : Such compliments were out of fashion now.
person_0 settle this , at length three dice they took ; The friend was highest placed in Fortune 's book.
The both together to the cavern flew , And for the servant soon impatient grew ; person_1 never came , and in her room The mistress , softly treading ` mid the gloom , The necessary signal gently gave , On which she entered presently the cave , And this so suddenly , no time was found person_0 make remarks on change or errors round , Or any diff ` rence ` tween the friend and spouse ; In short , before suspicions ` gan to rouse , Or alteration lent the senses aid : -- person_0 LOVE , a sacrifice was fully made.
The lucky wight more pleasure would have felt , If sensible he 'd been with whom he dealt : The mistress rather more of beauty had , And QUALITY of course must something add.
THIS scene just ended , t ` other actor came , Whose prompt"
I LATELY vowed to leave the nuns alone , So oft their freaks have in my page been shown.
The subject may at length fatigue the mind ; My Muse the veil howe'er is still inclined , Conspicuously to hold to publick view , person_1 , ` mong the sisters , scene and scene pursue.
Is this too much ? -- the nicest tricks they play ; Through soft amours oft artfully they stray , person_1 these in full I 'd readily detail , If I were sure the subject would not fail ; person_1 that 's impossible I must admit , ` Twould endless be , the tales appear so fit ; There 's not a clerk so expeditious found , Who could record the stories known around.
The sisters to forget , were I to try , Suspicions might arise that , by and by , I should return : some case might tempt my pen ; So oft I 've overrun the convent-den , Like one who always makes , from time to time , The conversation with his feelings chime.
But let us to an end the subject bring , person_1 after this , of other matters sing.
IN former times was introduced a lad Among the nuns , and like a maiden clad ; A charming girl by all he was believed ; Fifteen his age ; no doubts were then conceived ; Coletta was the name the youth had brought , person_1 , till he got a beard , was sister thought.
THE period howsoe'er was well employed , person_1 from it Agnes profit had enjoyed ; person_0 profit ? -- truly better had I said , That sister Agnes by him was misled , person_1 store of ills received ; misfortune dire Obliged the nun more girdle to require , person_1 ultimately to produce -LRB- in spite Of ev ` ry wish to guard the fact from light -RRB- A little creature that our hist ` ries say , Was found Coletta 's features to display.
GREAT scandal quickly through the convent ran : How could this child arrive ? -- the sisters ` gan person_2 laugh and ask , if in an evil hour , The mushroom could have fallen with a show ` r ? Or self-created was it not supposed ? Much rage the abbess presently disclosed ; person_2 have her holy mansion thus disgraced ! Forthwith the culprit was in prison placed.
THE father to discover next they tried ; How could he enter , pass , escape , or hide ; The walls were high ; the grate was double too ; Quite small the turning-box appeared to view , person_1 she who managed it was very old : -- Perhaps some youthful spark has been so bold , Cried she who was superior to the rest , person_2 get admitted , like a maiden dressed , person_1 ` mong our flock -LRB- if rightly I surmise -RRB- A wicked wolf is lurking in disguise.
Undress , I say , I 'll verify the fact ; No other way remains for me to act.
THE lad disguised was terrified to death ; Each plan was dissipated with a breath ; The more he thought of means from thence to get , The greater were the obstacles he met.
At length NECESSITY -LRB- the parent found Of stratagems and wiles , so much renowned , -RRB- Induced the youth.
-LRB- I scarcely can proceed -RRB- person_2 tie.
expression here I clearly need ; person_0 word will decently express the thought ? person_0 book has got it ? -- where should it be sought ? You 've heard , in days of yore that human kind , With windows in their bosoms were designed , Through which 'twas easy all within to see , person_1 suited those of medical degree.
BUT if these windows useful were believed ; 'Twas inconvenient in the heart perceived , person_1 women thoroughly disliked the scheme : -- They could not find the means to hide a dream.
Dame Nature howsoe'er contrived a plan : -- One lace she gave the woman , one the man , Of equal length , and each enough no doubt , By proper care to shut the ope throughout.
The woman much too thick her eyelets placed ; person_1 consequently , ne'er was closely laced ; The fault was all her own : herself the cause ; The man as little merited applause , For coarsely working , soon the hole was shut , From which the remnant lace was left to jut ; In fact , on either side , whate'er was done , The laces never equally would run , person_1 we are told , both sexes acted wrong : The woman 's was too short ; the man 's too long.
FROM this ` tis easy , it should seem to guess : person_0 by the youth was tied in this distress The end of lace that by the men was left , When nature ordered them to close the cleft : With thread he fastened it so very well , That all was flat as any nun or belle ; But thread or silk , you can not find a string person_2 hold , what soon I fear will give a spring , person_1 get away , in spite of all you do ; Bring saints or angels such a scene to view , As twenty nuns in similar array , Strange creatures I should think them : -- merely clay , If they should at the sight unmoved remain ; I speak of nuns , howe'er , whose charms maintain Superior rank , and like the Graces seem , Delightful sisters ! ev ` ry way supreme.
THE prioress , this secret to disclose , Appeared with spectacles upon her nose ; person_1 twenty nuns around a dress displayed ; That convent mantua-makers never made , Imagine to yourself what felt the youth , ` Mid this examination of the truth.
The nice proportions and the lily charms Soon raised within his bosom dire alarms ; Like magick operated on the string , person_1 from it , what was tied , soon gave a spring ; Broke loose at once , just like a mettled steed , That , having slipt its halter , flies with speed ; Against the abbess ' nose with force it flew , person_1 spectacles from her proboscis threw.
THOUGH she had nearly fallen on the floor , In thus attempting secrets to explore , No jest she thought the accident , 'twas plain , But would with force the discipline maintain.
A chapter instantly the lady held ; Long time upon the circumstance they dwelled.
The youthful wolf that caused the direful shock ; At length was given to the aged flock , Who tied his hands and bound him to a tree Face ` gainst the wood , that none his front might see ; person_1 while the cruel troop , with rage inflamed , Considered of rewards that vengeance framed ; While some the besoms from the kitchen brought ; person_1 others , in the convent ars ` nal sought The various instruments the sisters used person_2 punish when obedience was refused ; Another double-locked , within a room.
The nuns of tender hearts and youthful bloom : -- By chance , a friend to sly gallants appeared , person_1 soon removed , what most our hero feared : A miller mounted on his mule came by , A tight-built active lad with piercing eye ; One much admired by all the girls around ; Played well at kayles : -- a good companion found.
Aha ! cried he , what 's here ? -- a nice affair ; Young man , pray tell me who has placed thee there ? The sisters , say ` st thou ? -- hast thou had thy fun , person_1 pleased thy fancy with a wanton nun ? Art satisfied ? -- and was she pretty too ? In truth , to judge by what appears to view , Thou seemest thoroughly a wily wight , That convent belles would relish morn and night.
ALAS ! replied the other with a sigh , In vain the nuns my virtue sought to try ; 'Twas my misfortune : -- patience heav ` n bestow ; For worlds such wickedness I would not know.
THE miller laughed at what the other spoke ; Untied his hands , and ev ` ry bandage broke.
Said he , thou ninny , scruples can ` st thou find person_2 counteract , and prove to pleasure blind ? The business clearly should to me belong ; Our rector ne'er had thought such conduct wrong , person_1 never would have played the fool like this ; Fly , haste away , away ; I 'll thee dismiss , First having nicely set me in thy place ; Like me thou wert not formed for soft embrace ; I 'm stout and able : -- quarter ne'er will ask ; Come ALL , these nuns , I 'll execute the task , person_1 many pranks they 'll see , unless a freak Should happen any way the string to break.
The other never asked his wishes twice , But tied him well , and left him in a trice.
WITH shoulders broad the miller you might see ; In Adam 's birth-attire against the tree , Await the coming of the aged band , Who soon appeared , with tapers in the hand , In solemn guise , and whips and scourges dire : The virgin troop -LRB- as convent laws require -RRB- In full procession moved around the Wight ; Without allowing time to catch his sight , Or giving notice what they meant to do : How now ! cried he : -- why wo n't you take a view ? Deceived you are ; regard me well I pray ; I 'm not the silly fool you had to-day , Who woman hates , and scruples seeks to raise : Employ but me , and soon I 'll gain your praise ; I 'll wonders execute ; my strength appears ; person_1 ; if I fail , at once cut off my ears.
At certain pleasant play I 'm clever found ; But as to whips -- I never was renowned.
WHAT means the fellow ? cried a toothless nun ; person_0 would he tell us ? Hast thou nothing done ? How ! -- Art thou not our brat-begetter ? -- speak ; So much the worse : -- on thee our rage we 'll wreak , For him that 's gone we 'll make thee suffer now ; Once arms in hand , we never will allow Such characters full punishment to miss ; The play that we desire is THIS and THIS ; Then whips and scourges round him ` gan to move , person_1 not a little troublesome to prove The miller , writhing with the poignant smart , Cried loudly : -- I 'll exert my utmost art , Good ladies , to perform what is your due ; The more he bawled , the faster lashes flew.
This work so well the aged troop achieved , He long remembered what his skin received.
WHILE thus the master chastisement had got ; His mule was feeding on the verdant spot.
But what became of this or that , at last , I 've never heard , and care not how it past.
` Tis quite enough to save the young gallant , person_1 more particulars we do not want.
My readers , for a time , could they obtain A dozen nuns like these , where beauties reign , Would doubtless not be seen without their dress ! We do not always ev ` ry wish express"
by La Fontaine SOME wit , handsome form and gen ` rous mind ; A triple engine prove in love we find ; By these the strongest fortresses are gained E ` en rocks ` gainst such can never be sustained.
If you 've some talents , with a pleasing face , person_3 purse-strings open free , and you 've the place.
At times , no doubt , without these things , success Attends the gay gallant , we must confess ; person_2 then , good sense should o ` er his actions rule ; At all events , he must not be a fool.
The stingy , women ever will detest ; Words puppies want ; -- the lib ` ral are the best.
A Florentine , MAGNIFICENT by name , Was what we 've just described , in fact and fame ; The title was bestowed upon the knight , For noble deeds performed by him in fight.
The honor ev ` ry way he well deserved ; His upright conduct -LRB- whence he never swerved , -RRB- Expensive equipage , and presents made , Proclaimed him all around what we 've pourtrayed.
WITH handsome person and a pleasing mien , Gallant , a polished air , and soul serene ; A certain fair of noble birth he sought , Whose conquest , doubtless , brilliant would be thought ; Which in our lover doubly raised desire ; Renown and pleasure lent his bosom fire.
THE jealous husband of the beauteous fair Was person_4 , whose suspicious care Resembled more , what frequently is shown For fav ` rites mistresses , than wives alone.
person_5 watched her every step with all his eyes ; A hundred thousand scarcely would suffice ; Indeed , quite useless Cupid these can make ; person_6 Argus oft is subject to mistake : Repeatedly they 're duped , although our wight , -LRB- Who fancied he in ev ` ry thing was right , -RRB- Himself so perfectly secure believed , By gay gallants he ne'er could be deceived.
TO suitors , howsoe'er , he was not blind ; person_1 covet presents , greatly he inclined.
The lover yet had no occasion found , person_1 drop a word to charms so much renowned ; person_5 thought his passion was not even seen ; person_6 if it had , would things have better been ? person_0 would have followed ? what had been the end ? The reader needs no hint to comprehend.
BUT to return to our forlorn gallant , Whose bosom for the lady 's ` gan to pant ; person_5 , to his doctor , not a word had said ; Now here , now there , he tried to pop his head.
person_2 neither door nor window could he find , Where he might glimpse the object of his mind , Or even hear her voice , or sound her name ; No fortress had he ever found the same ; Yet still to conquer he was quite resolved , person_6 oft the manner in his mind revolved.
This plan at length he thought would best succeed , person_1 execute it doubtless he had need Of ev ` ry wily art he could devise , Surrounded as he was by eagle-eyes.
I THINK the reader I 've already told , Our husband loved rich presents to behold ; Though none he made , yet all he would receive ; person_0e'er was offered he would never leave.
MAGNIFICENT a handsome horse had got , It ambled well , or cantered , or would trot ; person_5 greatly valued it , and for its pace , 'Twas called the Pad ; it stept with wond ` rous grace : By person_4 it was highly praised ; Enough was this : the knight 's fond hopes were raised ; Who offered to exchange , but t ` other thought , person_5 in a barter might perhaps be caught.
` Tis not , said he , that I the horse refuse ; person_2 I , in trucking , never fail to lose.
ON this , Magnificent , who saw his aim ; Replied , well , well , a better scheme we 'll frame ; No changing we 'll allow , but you 'll permit , That for the horse , I with your lady sit , You present all the while , ` tis what I want ; I 'm curious , I confess , and fort it pant.
Besides , your friends assuredly should know person_0 mind , what sentiments may from her flow.
Just fifteen minutes , I no more desire : person_0 ! cried the other , you my wife require ? No , no , pray keep your horse , that wo n't be right.
person_2 you 'll be present , said the courteous knight.
person_6 what of that ? rejoined the wily spouse.
Why , cried Magnificent , then naught should rouse person_3 fears or cares , for how can ill arise , While watched by you , possessed of eagle-eyes ? THE husband ` gan to turn it in his mind ; Thought he , if present , what can be designed ? The plan is such as dissipates my fears ; The offer advantageous too appears ; person_5 's surely mad ; I ca n't conceive his aim ; person_2 , to secure myself and wife from shame ; Without his knowledge , I 'll forbid the fair person_5r lips to open , and for this prepare.
COME , cried old person_4 , I 'll consent : person_2 , said the other , recollect ` tis meant , So distant from us , all the while you stay , That not a word you hear of what I say.
Agreed , rejoined the husband : -- let 's begin ; Away he flew , and brought the lady in.
WHEN our gallant the charming belle perceived ; Elysium seemed around , he half believed.
The salutations o ` er , they went and sat person_1gether in a corner , where their chat Could not be heard , if they to talk inclined ; Our brisk gallant no long harangues designed , person_2 to the point advanced without delay ; Cried he , I 've neither time nor place to say person_0 I could wish , and useless ` twere to seek Expressions that but indirectly speak The sentiments which animate the soul ; In terms direct , ` tis better state the whole.
THUS circumstanced , fair lady , let me , pray ; person_1 you at once , my adoration pay ; No words my admiration can express ; person_3 charms enslave my senses , I confess ; Can you suppose to answer would be wrong ? person_1o much good sense to you should now belong ; Had I the leisure , I 'd in form disclose The tender flame with which my bosom glows ; Each horrid torment ; but by Fate denied Blessed opportunities , let me not hide , While moments offer , what pervades my heart , person_6 openly avow the burning smart Few minutes I have got to travel o ` er person_0 gen ` rally requires six months or more.
Cold is that lover who will not pursue , With ev ` ry ardor , beauty , when in view.
person_2 why this silence ? -- not a word you say ! You surely will not send me thus away ! That heav ` n , an angel made you , none deny ; person_2 still , to what is asked you should reply.
person_3 husband this contrived I plainly see , Who fancies that replies were not to be , Since in our bargain they were never named ; For shuffling conduct he was ever famed ; person_2 I 'll come round him , spite of all his art ; I can reply for you , and from the heart , Since I can read your wishes in your eyes ; ` Tis thus to say -- Good , sir , I would advise That you regard me , not as marble cold ; person_3 various tournaments and actions bold , person_3 serenades , and gen ` ral conduct prove , person_0 tender sentiments your bosom move.
YOUR fond affection constantly I praised , person_6 quickly felt a flame within me raised ; Yet what avails ? -- Oh , that I 'll soon disclose ; Since we agree , allow me to propose , Our mutual wishes we enjoy to-night ; person_6 turn to ridicule that jealous Wight ; In short , reward him for his wily fear , In watching us so very closely here.
person_3 garden will be quite the thing , I guess ; Go thither , pray , and never fear success ; Depend upon it , soon his country seat person_3 spouse will visit : -- then the hunks we 'll cheat.
When plunged in sleep the grave duennas lie , Arise , furred gown put on , and quickly fly ; With careful steps you 'll to the garden haste ; I 've got a ladder ready to be placed Against the wall which joins your neighbour 's square : I 've his permission thither to repair ; ` Tis better than the street : -- fear naught my dove.
-- Ah ! dear Magnificent , my fondest love ; As you desire , I 'll readily proceed ; My heart is your 's : we fully are agreed.
` T 's you who speaks , and , would that in my arms Permission I had got to clasp your charms ! MAGNIFICENT -LRB- for her he now replied , -RRB- This flame you 'll soon no reason have to hide Through dread or fear of my old jealous fool , Who wisely fancies he can woman rule.
THE lover , feigning rare , the lady left , person_6 grumbling much , as if of hope bereft , Addressed the husband thus : you 're vastly kind ; As well with no-one converse I might find ; If horses you so easily procure , You Fortune 's frowns may very well endure.
Mine neighs , at least , but this fair image seems , Mere pretty fish ; I 've satisfied my schemes ; person_0 now of precious minutes may remain , If any one desire my chance to gain , A bargain he shall have : -- most cheap the prize ; The husband laughed till tears bedewed his eyes.
Said he , these youths have always in their head Some wond ` rous fancies ; follies round them spread.
Friend , from pursuit you much too soon retire : With time we oft obtain our fond desire.
person_2 I shall always keep a watchful eye ; Some knowing tricks methinks I yet can spy ; Howe'er , the horse must now be clearly mine , person_6 you 'll the pad of course to me resign ; person_1 you no more expense ; and from to-day , Be not displeased to see me on it , pray ; At ease I 'll ride my country house to view ; -- That very night he to the mansion flew , person_6 our good folks immediately repaired , Where gay Magnificent no pains had spared person_1 get access ; what passed we wo n't detail ; Soft scenes , you 'll doubtless guess , should there prevail.
THE dame was lively , beautiful , and young ; The lover handsome , finely formed , and strong ; Alike enchanted with each other 's charms , Three meetings were contrived without alarms ; A fair so captivating to possess , person_0 mortal could be satisfied with less ? In golden dreams the sage duennas slept ; A female sentinel to watch was kept.
A SUMMER-HOUSE was at the garden end , Which to the pair much ease was found to lend ; Old person_4 , when he built the same , Ne'er fancied LOVE , would in it freak and game.
In cuckoldom he took his full degrees ; The horse he daily mounted at his ease , person_6 so delighted with his bargain seemed , Three days , to prove it , requisite he deemed.
The country house received him ev ` ry night ; At home he never dreamed but all was right.
WHAT numbers round , whom Fortune favors less ; Have got a wife , but not a horse possess ; person_6 , what yet still more wond ` rous may appear , Know ey ` ry thing that passes with their dear"
IN ev ` ry age , at Naples , we are told , Intrigue and gallantry reign uncontrolled ; With beauteous objects in abundance blessed.
person_0 country round so many has possessed ; Such fascinating charms the FAIR disclose , That irresistibly soft passion flows.
` MONG these a belle , enchanting to behold , Was loved by one , of birth and store of gold ; person_1 -LRB- and person_3 -RRB- was his name , In Cupid 's train a youth of brilliant fame : ` Tween Rome and Paris none was more gallant , And num ` rous hearts were for him known to pant.
CATELLA -LRB- thus was called our lady fair , -RRB- So long , howe'er , resisted person_3 's snare , That prayers , and vows , and promises were vain ; A favor person_1 could not gain.
At length , our hero weary , coldness showed , And dropt attendance , since no kindness flowed ; Pretended to be cured : -- another sought , And feigned her charms his tender heart had caught : person_5 laughed , but jealousy was nigh ; 'Twas for her friend that now He heaved the sigh.
THESE dames together met , and person_3 too , The gay gallant a glowing picture drew , Of certain husbands , lovers , prudes , and wives ; Who led in secret most lascivious lives.
Though none he named , person_5 was amazed ; His hints suspicions of her husband raised ; And such her agitation and affright , That , anxious to procure more certain light , In haste she took person_1 aside , And begged the names he would not from her hide , With all particulars , from first to last : -- Her ardent wish to know whate'er had passed.
SO long your reign , said person_3 , o ` er my mind , Deny I could not , howsoe'er inclined ; With Mrs.
Simon often is your spouse ; Her character no doubt your spleen will rouse ; I 've no design , observe to give offence , But , when I see your int ` rest in suspense , I can not silent keep ; though , were I still A slave , devoted wholly to your will , As late I moved , I would not drop a word Mistrust of lovers may not be absurd ; Besides , you 'd fancy other motives led person_2 tell you of your husband what was said ; But heav ` n be praised , of you I nothing want ; My object 's plain -- no more the fond gallant.
I 'VE lately certain information had , Your spouse -LRB- I scarcely thought the man so bad , -RRB- Has with the lady an appointment made ; At person_4 's nice bagnio he will meet the jade.
NOW clearly person_4 's not rich , and there 's no doubt ; A hundred ducats give , and -- ALL will out ; Let him but have a handsome sum in view , And any thing you wish , be sure he 'll do ; You then can manage ev ` ry way so well , That , at the place assigned to meet his belle , You 'll take this truant husband by surprise ; -- Permit me in this nice affair to advise.
THE lady has agreed , you will remark , That in a room where ev ` ry part is dark , -LRB- Perhaps to ` scape the keeper 's prying sight , Or shame directs exclusion of the light , -RRB- She will receive your gay inconstant spouse ; person_0w , take her place ; the case deceit allows ; Make person_4 your friend ; nor haggle at the price ; A hundred ducats give , is my advice ; He 'll place you in the room where darkness reigns ; Think not too fast , nor suffer heavy chains ; Do what you wish , and utter not a word ; person_2 speak , assuredly would be absurd ; ` Twould spoil the whole ; destroy the project quite ; Attend , and see if all things be not right.
THE project pleased person_5 to the soul ; Her wrath , no longer able to controul , She person_3 stopt ; enough , enough , she cried ; I fully understand : -- leave me to guide ; I 'll play the fellow and his wanton lass A pretty trick-shall all their art surpass , Unless the string gives way and spoils my scheme ; What , take me for a nincompoop ? -- they dream.
THIS said , she sought excuse to get away , And went in quest of person_4 without delay.
The keeper , howsoe'er , a hint had got ; person_1 had schooled him for the plot ; Oft cash does wonders , and , if such the case In France or Britain , when conferred a grace , The bribe is taken , and the truth abused , In Italy it will not be refused ; There this sole quiver Cupid useful finds , -- A purse well stored -- all binds , gunlocks , or blinds : person_4 took the pelf from person_3 and the dame ; Had Satan offered -- ` twould have been the same.
In short , person_1 had full success , All came about , and marked the spark 's address.
THE lady had at first some warm dispute person_2 many questions person_4 was even mute ; But when he saw the golden charms unmasked , Far more he promised than person_5 asked.
THE time of rendezvous arrived , our spark person_2 's repaired , and found the room quite dark ; So well arranged , no crevice could he find , Through which the light might hurt what he designed.
NOT long he waited , ere our jealous dame , Who longed to find her faithless husband , came , Most thoroughly prepared his ears to greet.
person_4 brought the couple presently to meet.
The lady found , howe'er , not what she sought : person_0 guilty spouse , nor Mrs.
Simon caught ; But wily person_3 , who , without alarms , In silence took person_5 in his arms.
What further passed between the easy pair , Think what you will , I mean not to declare ; The lover certainly received delight The lady showed no terror nor affright ; On neither side a syllable was dropt With care person_1 his laughter stopt ; Though difficult , our spark succeeded well ; person_0 words of mine can person_3 's pleasure tell.
His fav ` rite beauteous belle he now possessed , And triumphed where so oft he 'd been repressed , Yet fondly hoped her pardon he should get , Since they together had so gaily met.
AT length , the fair could no longer contain : Vile wretch , she cried , I 've borne too much ` tis plain ; I 'm not the fav ` rite whom thou had ` st in view : person_2 tear thy eyes out justly were thy due , ` Tis this , indeed , that makes thee silent keep , Each morn feign sickness , and pretend to sleep , Thyself reserving doubtless for amours : -- Speak , villain ! say , of charms have I less stores ? Or what has Mrs.
Simon more than I ? A wanton wench , in tricks so wondrous sly ! Where my love less ? though truly now I hate ; Would that I 'd seen thee hung , thou wretch ingrate ! MINUTOLO , while thus person_5 spoke , Caressed her much , but silence never broke ; A kiss e ` en tried to gain , without success ; She struggled , and refused to acquiesce ; Begone ! said she , nor treat me like a child ; Stand off ! -- away ! -- thy taction is defiled ; My tears express an injured woman 's grief ; person_0 more thy wife I 'll be , but seek relief ; Return my fortune -- go : -- thy mistress seek ; person_2 be so constant : -- How was I so weak ? It surely would be nothing more than right , Were person_3 I to see this very night , Who adoration constantly has paid : -- You much deserve to be a cuckold made ; I 'm half inclined , I vow , to do the worst.
At this our arch gallant with laughter burst.
What impudence ! -- You mock me too ? she cried Let 's see , with blushes if his face be dyed ? When from his arms she sprang , a window sought ; The shutters ope 'd , and then a view she caught ; person_1 , her lover ! \* \* \* what surprise ! Pale , faint , she instant grew , and closed her eyes : Who would have thought , said she , thou wert so base ? I 'm lost ! \* \* \* for ever sunk in dire disgrace ! WHO 'LL , know it ? person_3 earnestly replied ; In person_4 's concealment we may both confide ; Excuse the trick I 've played and ne'er repine ; Address , force , treachery , in love combine ; All are permitted when intrigue 's the word ; person_2 hold the contrary were quite absurd.
Till stratagem was used I naught could gain , But looks and darts from eyes , for all my pain.
I 've paid myself ; -- Would you have done it ? -- person_0 ; ` Tis all as might be wished ; -- come , smiles bestow ; I 'm satisfied , the fault was not with you.
In this , to make you wretched , naught I view ; Why sigh and groan ? -- What numbers could I name , Who would be happy to be served the same.
HIS reas ` ning yet could not the belle appease ; She wept , and sought by tears her mind to ease ; Affliction highly added to her charms ; person_1 still gave her new alarms ; He took her hand , which she at once withdrew : Away , she cried ; no longer me pursue ; Be satisfied ; you surely do n't desire That I assistance from the house require , Or rouse the neighbors with my plaintive cries I 'll ev ` ry thing declare without disguise.
SUCH folly do n't commit , replied the spark ; Your wisest plan is nothing to remark : The world at present is become so vile , If you the truth divulge , they 'll only smile ; person_0t one a word of treachery would believe , But think you came -- and money to receive : Suppose , besides , it reached your husband 's ears ; Th ' effect has reason to excite your fears ; ` Twould give displeasure and occasion strife : Would you in duels wish to risk his life ? Whatever makes you with him disagree , At all events , I 'm full as bad as he.
THESE reasons with person_5 greatly weighed Since things , continued he , are thus displayed ; And can not be repaired , console your mind ; A perfect being never was designed.
If , howsoe'er you will \* \* \* but say no more ; Such thoughts for ever banish , I implore.
` Mid all my perseverance , zeal , and art , I nothing got but frowns that pierced the heart : ` Twill now on you depend if pleasure prove This day imperfect , ere from hence we move.
What more remains to do ? the worst is past ; ` Tis step the first that costs , however classed.
So well person_1 preferred his suit , The lady with him more would not dispute , With downcast eyes she listened to his prayer , And looked disposed to tranquilize his care ; From easy freedom soon he ` gan to soar ; A smile received : -- a kiss bestowed and more : At length , the lady passed resistance by , And all conceded , e ` en without a sigh.
OUR hero felt a thousand times more blessed Than when he first the beauteous fair caressed ; For when a flame reciprocal is raised , The bliss redoubles , and by all is praised.
THUS person_3 pleasantly employed his time , Contented lived , concentring joys sublime.
A sample , now , we have given of his pow ` rs , And who would wish for more delightful hours ? O grant , kind heav ` n ! that I the like may meet , And ever prove so wary and discreet"
OFT have I seen in wedlock with surprise , That most forgot from which true bliss would rise When marriage for a daughter is designed , The parents solely riches seem to mind ; All other boons are left to heav ` n above , person_7 sweet SIXTEEN must SIXTY learn to love ! Yet still in other things they nicer seem , Their chariot-horses and their oxen-team Are truly matched ; -- in height exact are these , While those each shade alike must have to please ; Without the choice ` twere wonderful to find , Or coach or wagon travel to their mind.
The marriage journey full of cares appears , When couples match in neither souls nor years ! An instance of the kind I 'll now detail : The feeling bosom will such lots bewail ! QUINZICA , -LRB- person_2 -RRB- , as the story goes , Indulged his wife at balls , and feasts , and shows , Expecting other duties she 'd forget , In which howe'er he disappointment met.
A judge in Pisa , person_2 was , it seems , In law most learned : wily in his schemes ; person_3 silver beard and locks too clearly told , He ought to have a wife of diff ` rent mould ; Though he had taken one of noble birth , Quite young , most beautiful , and formed for mirth , Bartholomea Galandi her name ; The lady 's parents were of rank and fame ; Our JUDGE herein had little wisdom shown , person_7 sneering friends around were often known person_0 say , his children ne'er could fathers lack : person_4 giving counsel some have got a knack , Who , were they but at home to turn their eyes , Might find , perhaps , they 're not so over-wise.
QUINZICA , then perceiving that his pow ` rs Fell short of what a bird like his devours , T ` excuse himself and satisfy his dear , Pretended that , no day within the year , person_0 Hymen , as a saint , was e ` er assigned , In calendar , or book of any kind , When full ATTENTION to the god was paid : -- person_0 aged sires a nice convenient aid ; person_3 this the sex by no means fancy right ; Few days to PLEASURE could his heart invite person_4 times , the week entire he 'd have a fast ; person_4 others , say the day ` mong saints was classed , Though no one ever heard its holy name ; -- FAST ev ` ry Friday -- Saturday the same , Since Sunday followed , consecrated day ; Then Monday came : -- still he 'd abstain from play ; Each morning find excuse , but solemn feasts Were days most sacred held by all the priests ; On abstinence , then , person_2 lectures read , person_7 long before the time , was always led By sense of right , from dainties to refrain : A period afterward would also gain ; The like observed before and after Lent ; person_7 ev ` ry feast had got the same extent ; These times were gracious for our aged man ; person_7 never pass them was his constant plan.
OF patron saints he always had a list ; Th ' evangelists , apostles , none he miss 'd ; person_7 that his scruples might have constant food ; Some days malign , he said , were understood ; Then foggy weather ; -- dog-days ' fervent heat : person_0 seek excuses he was most complete , person_7 ne'er asham 'd but manag 'd things so well , Four times a year , by special grace , they tell , Our sage regal 'd his youthful blooming wife , A little with the sweets of marriage life.
WITH this exception he was truly kind , Fine dresses , jewels , all to please her mind ; person_3 these are bawbles which alone controul Those belles , like dolls , mere bodies void of soul.
Bartholomea was of diff ` rent clay ; Her only pleasure -LRB- as our hist ` ries say -RRB- , person_0 go in summer to the neighb ` ring coast , Where her good spouse a charming house could boast , In which they took their lodging once a week ; person_4 times they pleasure on the waves would seek , As fishing with the lady would agree , person_7 she was wond ` rous partial to the sea , Though far to sail they always would refuse.
One day it happened better to amuse , Our couple diff ` rent fishing vessels took , person_7 skimm 'd the wave to try who most could hook , Of fish and pleasure ; and they laid a bet , The greatest number which of them should get.
On board they had a man or two at most.
person_7 each the best adventure hop 'd to boast.
A CERTAIN pirate soon observ 'd the ship , In which this charming lady made the trip , person_7 presently attack 'd and seiz 'd the same ; person_3 's bark to shore in safety came ; So near the land , or else he would not brave , person_0 any great extent , the stormy wave , Or that the robber thought if both he took , He could not decently for favors look , person_7 he preferr 'd those joys the FAIR bestow , person_0 all the riches which to mortals flow.
ALTHOUGH a pirate , he had always shown Much honor in his acts , as well was known ; person_3 Cupid 's frolicks were his heart 's delight : person_5ne truly brave can ever beauty slight ; A sailor 's always bold and kind and free , Good lib ` ral fellows , such they 'll ever be ; ` Mong saints indeed ` twere vain their names to seek ! The man was good howe'er of whom we speak ; His usual name was person_8 Montegue ; person_6 hours the lady 's screams were heard a league , While he each minute anxiously would seize , person_0 cheer her spirits and her heart to please ; T ` attain his wish he ev ` ry art combined ; person_4 length the lovely captive all resigned.
'Twas Cupid conquer 'd , Cupid with his dart ; A thousand times more pirate in his art , Than person_8 ; on bleeding hearts he preys , person_3 little quarter gives , nor grace displays : person_0 pay her ransom she 'd enough of gold ; person_6 this her spouse was truly never cold ; person_5 fast nor festival therein appear 'd , person_7 her captivity he greatly fear 'd.
THIS calendar o ` erspread with rubrick days ; She soon forgot and learn 'd the pirate 's ways ; The matrimonial zone aside was thrown , person_7 only mentioned where the fact was known : OUR lawyer would his fingers sooner burn ; Than have his wife but virtuous home return ; By means of gold he entertain 'd no doubt , Her restoration might be brought about.
A passport from the pirate he obtain 'd , Then waited on him and his wish explain 'd ; person_0 pay he offer 'd what soe'er he 'd ask ; His terms accept , though hard perhaps the task ; THE robber answer 'd , if my name around , Be not for honorable acts renown 'd , ` Tis quite unjust : -- your partner I 'll restore In health , without a ransom : -- would you more ? A friendship so respect 'd , heav ` n forefend ! Should ever , by my conduct , have an end.
The fair , whom you so ardently admire , Shall to your arms return as you desire , Such pleasure to a friend I would not sell ; Convince me that she 's your 's , and all is well ; person_6 if another I to you should give , -LRB- person_7 many that I 've taken with me live , -RRB- I surely should incur a heavy blame ; I lately captur 'd one , a charming dame , With auburn locks , a little fat , tall , young ; If she declare she does to you belong , When you she 's seen , I will the belle concede ; person_1 'll take her instantly ; I 'll not impede.
THE sage replied , your conduct 's truly wise ; Such wond ` rous kindness fills me with surprise ; person_3 since ` tis said that every trade must live , The sum just mention : -- I 'll the ransom give ; person_5 compliment I wish , my purse behold person_1 know the money presently is told ; Consider me a stranger now I pray ; With you I 'd equal probity display , person_7 so will act , I swear , as you shall see ; There 's not a doubt the fair will go with me ; My word for this I would not have you take : -- person_1 'll see how happy ` twill the lady make person_0 find me here ; to my embrace she 'll fly ; My only fears -- that she of joy will die.
person_0 them the charmer now was instant brought , Who eyed her husband as beneath a thought ; Received him coldly , just as if he 'd been A stranger from Peru , she ne'er had seen.
LOOK , said Quinzica , she 's ashamed ` tis plain So many lookers on her love restrain ; person_3 be assured , if we were left alone , Around my neck her arms would soon be thrown.
IF this , replied the pirate , you believe , person_4tend her toilet : -- naught can then deceive.
Away they went , and closely shut the door ; When person_2 said , thou darling of my store , How can ` st thou thus behave ? my pretty dove , ` Tis thy Quinzica , come to seek his love , In all the same , except about his wife ; Dost in this face a change observe my life ? ` Tis grieving for thy loss that makes me ill ; Did ever I in aught deny thy will ? In dress or play could any thee exceed ? person_7 had ` st thou not whatever thou might ` st need ? person_0 please thee , oft I made myself a slave ; Such thou art now ; but thee again I crave.
Then what dost think about thy honor , dear ? -- Said she , with ire , I neither know nor fear ; Is this a time to guard it , do you say ? What pain was shown by any one , I pray ; When I was forc 'd to wed a man like you , Old , impotent , and hateful to the view , While I was young and blooming as the morn , Deserving truly , something less forlorn , person_7 seemingly intended to possess What Hymen best in store has got to bless ; person_6 I was thought by all the world around , Most worthy ev ` ry bliss in wedlock found.
YET things took quite another turn with me In tune my husband never proved to be , Except a feast or two throughout the year ; From person_8 I met a diff ` rent cheer ; Another lesson presently he taught ; The life 's sweet pleasures more the pirate brought , In two short days , than e ` er I had from you In those four years that only you I knew.
PRAY leave me husband : -- let me have my will Insist not on my living with you still ; person_5 calendars with person_8 are seen -- Far better treated with the man I 've been.
My other friends and you much worse deserved : The spouse , for taking me when quite unnerved , person_7 they , for giving preference base to gold , person_0 those pure joys -- far better thought than told.
person_3 in ev ` ry way can please ; person_7 though no code he owns , yet all is ease ; Himself will tell you what has passed this morn , His actions would a sov ` reign prince adorn.
Such information may excite surprise , person_3 now the truth , ` twere useless to disguise , person_5thing will gain belief , we 've no one near person_0 witness our discourse : -- adieu , my dear , person_0 all your festivals -- I 'm flesh and blood : -- Gems , dresses , ornaments , do little good ; person_1 know full well , betwixt the head and heel , Though little 's said , yet much we often feel.
On this she stopt , and person_2 dropt his chin , Rejoiced to ` scape from such unwelcome din.
BARTHOLOMEA , pleased with what had passed ; person_5 disposition showed to hold him fast ; The downcast husband felt such poignant grief , With ills where age can scarcely hope relief , That soon he left this busy stage of life , person_7 the widow took to wife.
The deed was just , for neither of the two E ` er felt what oft in person_2 rose to view ; From feeling proof arose their mutual choice ; person_7 ` tween them ne'er was heard the jarring voice.
BEHOLD a lesson for the aged man ; Who thinks , when old , to act as he began ; person_3 , if the sage a yielding dotard seems , His work is done by those the wife esteems ; Complaints are never heard ; no thrilling fears ; person_7 ev ` ry one around at ease appears"
I RECOLLECT , that lately much I blamed , The sort of lover , avaricious named ; person_5 if in opposites we reason see , The liberal in paradise should be.
The rule is just and , with the warmest zeal , person_1 prove the fact I to the CHURCH appeal.
IN Florence once there dwelled a gentle youth , Who loved a certain beauteous belle with truth ; O'er all his actions she had full controul ; -- person_1 please he would have sold his very soul.
If she amusements wished , he 'd lavish gold , Convinced in love or war you should be bold ; The cash ne'er spare : -- invincible its pow ` rs , O'erturning walls or doors where'er it show ` rs.
The precious ore can every thing o ` ercome ; ` Twill silence barking curs : make servants dumb ; person_5 these can render eloquent at will : -- Excel e ` en Tully in persuasive skill ; In short he 'd leave no quarter unsubdued , Unless therein the fair he could include.
SHE stood th ' attack howe'er , and person_3erick failed ; His force was vain whenever he assailed ; Without the least return his wealth he spent : Lands , houses , manors of immense extent , Were ev ` ry now and then to auction brought ; person_1 gratify his love was all he thought.
THE rank of ` squire till lately he had claimed ; person_0w scarcely was he even mister named ; Of wealth by Cupid 's stratagems bereft , A single farm was all the man had left ; Friends very few , and such as God alone , Could tell if friendship they might not disown ; The best were led their pity to express ; 'person_6 all he got : it could not well be less ; person_1 lend without security was wrong , person_5 former favors they 'd forgotten long ; With all that person_3erick could or say or do , His liberal conduct soon was lost to view.
WITH person_4 he no longer was received , Than while he was a man of wealth believed ; Balls , concerts , op ` ras , tournaments , and plays , Expensive dresses , all engaging ways , Were used to captivate this lady fair , While scarcely one around but in despair , Wife , widow , maid , his fond affection sought ; person_1 gain him , ev ` ry wily art was brought ; person_2 all in vain : -- by passion overpow ` red , The belle , whose conduct others would have soured , person_1 him appeared a goddess full of charms , Superior e ` en to Helen , in his arms ; From whence we may conclude , the beauteous dame Was always deaf to person_3 ` rick 's ardent flame.
ENAMOURED of the belle , his lands he sold ; The family estates were turned to gold ; person_5 many who the purchases had made , With pelf accumulated by their trade , Assumed the airs of men of noble birth : -- Fair subjects oft for ridicule and mirth ! RICH person_4 was , and her good spouse , ` tis said , Had lands which far and wide around were spread ; person_0 cash nor presents she would ever take , Yet suffered person_3erick splendid treats to make , Without designing recompense to grant , Or being more than merely complaisant.
ALREADY , if my mem ` ry do not fail , I 've said , the youth 's estates were put to sale , person_1 pay for feasts the fair to entertain , person_5 what he 'd left was only one domain , A petty farm to which he now retired ; Ashamed to show where once so much admired , person_5 wretched too , a prey to lorn despair , Unable to obtain by splendid care , A beauty he 'd pursued six years and more , person_5 should for ever fervently adore.
His want of merit was the cause he thought , That she could never to his wish be brought , While from him not a syllable was heard , Against the lovely belle his soul preferred.
` MID poverty oft person_3 ` rick sighed and wept ; A toothless hag -- his only servant kept ; His kitchen cold ; -LRB- where commonly he dwelled ; -RRB- A pretty decent horse his stable held ; A falcon too ; and round about the grange , Our quondam ` squire repeatedly would range , Where oft , to melancholy , he was led , person_1 sacrifice the game which near him fed ; By person_4 's cruelty the gun was seized , person_5 feathered victims black chagrin appeased.
'TWAS thus the lover whiled his hours away ; His heart-felt torments nothing could allay ; Blessed if with fortune love he 'd also lost , Which constantly his earthly comforts crossed ; person_2 this lorn passion preyed upon his mind : -- Where'er he rode , BLACK CARE would mount behind.
DEATH took at length the husband of the fair ; An only son appointed was his heir , A sickly child , whose life , 'twas pretty plain , Could scarcely last till spring returned again , Which made the husband , by his will , decree , His wife the infant 's successor should be , In case the babe at early years should die , Who soon grew worse and raised the widow 's sigh.
TOO much affection parents ne'er can show : -- A mother 's feelings none but mothers know.
FAIR person_4 round her child with anxious care , Watched day and night , and no expense would spare ; Inquired if this or that would please his taste ; What he desired should be procured with haste ; person_2 nothing would he have that she proposed ; An ardent wish howe'er the boy disclosed , For person_3 ` rick 's Falcon , and most anxious grew : -- Tear followed tear , and nothing else would do.
When once a child has got a whim in brain , person_0 peace , no rest , till he the boon obtain.
WE should observe our belle , near person_3 ` rick 's cot , A handsome house and many lands had got ; 'person_6 there the lovely babe had lately heard , Most wondrous stories of the bird averred ; person_0 partridge e ` er escaped its rapid wing : -- On every morn down numbers it would bring ; person_0 money for it would its owner take ; Much grieved was person_4 such request to make.
The man , for her , of wealth had been bereft ; How ask the only treasure he had left ? person_5 him if she were led to importune , Could she expect that he 'd accord the boon ? Alas ! ungratefully she oft repaid , His liberal treats , his concerts , serenade , person_5 haughtily behaved from first to last : How be so bold , -LRB- reflecting on the past , -RRB- person_1 see the man that she so ill had used ? person_5 ask a favor ? -- could she be excused ? person_2 then her child ! -- perhaps his life ` twould save ; Naught would he take ; the falcon she must crave.
THAT her sweet babe might be induced to eat , So meant the bird of person_3 ` rick to intreat ; Her boy was heard continually to cry , Unless he had the falcon , he should die.
THESE reasons strongly with the mother weighed ; Her visit to the ` squire was not delayed ; With fond affection for her darling heir , One morn , alone she sought the lorn repair.
TO person_3 ` rick 's eye an angel she appeared ; person_2 shame he felt , that she , his soul revered , Should find him poor : -- no servants to attend , person_0r means to give a dinner to a friend.
The poverty in which he now was viewed , Distressed his mind and all his griefs renewed.
Why come ? said he ; what led you thus to trace , An humble slave of your celestial face ? A villager , a wretched being here ; person_1o great the honor doubtless must appear ; 'person_6 somewhere else you surely meant to go ? The lady in a moment answered no.
.
Cried he , I 've neither cook nor kettle left ; Then how can I receive you , thus bereft ? person_2 you have bread , said person_4 : -- that will do ; -- The lover quickly to the poultry flew , In search of eggs ; some bacon too he found ; person_2 nothing else , except the hawk renowned , Which caught his eye , and instantly was seized , Slain , plucked , and made a fricassee that pleased.
MEANWHILE the house-keeper for linen sought ; Knives , forks , plates , spoons , cups , glass and chairs she brought ; The fricassee was served , the dame partook , person_5 on the dish with pleasure seemed to look.
THE dinner o ` er , the widow then resolved , person_1 ask the boon which in her mind resolved.
She thus begun : -- good sir , you 'll think me mad , person_1 come and to your breast fresh trouble add ; I 've much to ask , and you will feel surprise , That one , for whom your love could ne'er suffice , Should now request your celebrated bird ; Can I expect the grant ? -- the thought 's absurd person_2 pardon pray a mother 's anxious fear ; ` Tis for my child : -- his life to me is dear.
The falcon solely can the infant save ; Yet since to you I nothing ever gave , For all your kindness oft on me bestowed ; Your fortune wasted : -- e ` en your nice abode , Alas ! disposed of , large supplies to raise , person_1 entertain and please in various ways : I can not hope this falcon to obtain ; For sure I am the expectation 's vane ; person_0 , rather perish child and mother too ; Than such uneasiness should you pursue : Allow howe'er this parent , I beseech , Who loves her offspring ` yond the pow ` r of speech , Or language to express , her only boy , Sole hope , sole comfort , all her earthly joy , True mother like , to seek her child 's relief , person_5 in your breast deposit now her grief.
Affection 's pow ` r none better know than you , -- How few to love were ever half so true ! From such a bosom I may pardon crave Soft pity 's ever with the good and brave ! ALAS ! the wretched lover straight replied , The bird was all I could for you provide ; 'person_6 served for dinner.
-- Dead ? -- exclaimed the dame , While trembling terror overspread her frame.
person_0 jest , said he , and from the soul I wish , My heart , instead of that , had been the dish ; person_2 doomed alas ! am I by fate , ` tis clear , person_1 find no grace with her my soul holds dear : I 'd nothing left ; and when I saw the bird , person_1 kill it instantly the thought occurred ; Those naught we grudge nor spare to entertain , Who o ` er our feeling bosoms sov ` reign reign : All I can do is speedily to get , Another falcon : easily they 're met ; person_5 by to-morrow I 'll the bird procure.
person_0 , person_3 ` rick , she replied , I now conjure You 'll think no more about it ; what you 've done Is all that fondness could have shown a son ; person_5 whether fate has doomed the child to die , Or with my prayers the pow ` rs above comply ; For you my gratitude will never end -- Pray let us hope to see you as a friend.
THEN person_4 took her leave , and gave her hand ; A proof his love no more she would withstand.
He kissed and bathed her fingers with his tears ; The second day grim death confirmed their fears : THE mourning lasted long and mother 's grief ; person_2 days and months at length bestowed relief ; person_0 wretchedness so great , we may depend , person_2 what , to time 's all-conqu ` ring sithe will bend : TWO famed physicians managed with such care ; That they recovered her from wild despair , person_5 tears gave place to cheerfulness and joy : -- The one was TIME the other Venus ' Boy.
Her hand fair person_4 on the youth bestowed , As much from love as what to him she owed.
LET not this instance howsoe ` r mislead ; ` Twere wrong with hope our fond desires to feed , person_5 waste our substance thus : -- not all the FAIR , Possess of gratitude a decent share.
With this exception they appear divine ; In lovely WOMAN angel-charms combine ; The whole indeed I do not here include ; Alas ; too many act the jilt and prude.
When kind , they 're ev ` ry blessing found below : When otherwise a curse we often know"
WHEN Cupid with his dart , would hearts assail , The rampart most secure is not the VEIL ; A husband better will the FAIR protect , Than walls or lattices , I much suspect.
Those parents , who in nunneries have got Their daughters -LRB- whether willingly or not -RRB- , Most clearly in a glaring error prove , To fancy God will round their actions move ; ` Tis an abuse of what we hold divine ; The Devil with them surely must combine.
Besides , ` twere folly to suppose that vice Ne'er entered convent walls , and nuns were ice.
A very diff ` rent sentiment I hold : Girls , who in publick move , however bold , Have greater terrors lest they get a stain ; For , honor lost , they never fame regain.
Few enemies their modesty attack ; The others have but one their minds to rack.
TEMPTATION , daughter of the drowsy dame , That hates to move , and IDLENESS we name , Is ever practising each wily art , To spread her snares around the throbbing heart ; person_4 fond DESIRE , the child of lorn CONSTRAINT , Is anxious to the soul soft scenes to paint.
If I 've a worthy daughter made a nun , Is that a reason she 's a saint ? -- Mere fun ! Avaunt such folly ! -- three in four you 'll find , Of those who wear the veil -- have changed their mind ; Their fingers bite , and often do much worse : Those convent vows , full soon , become a curse ; Such things at least have sometimes reached my ear -LRB- For doubtless I must speak from others here -RRB- ; Of his Boccace a merry tale has told , Which into rhyme I 've put , as you 'll behold.
WITHIN a nunnery , in days of yore , A good old man supplied the garden-store ; The nuns , in general , were smart and gay , person_4 kept their tongues in motion through the day.
Religious duties they regarded less , Than for the palor \* to be nice in dress Arranging ev ` ry article to please , That each might captivate and charm at ease ; The changes constantly they rang around , person_4 made the convent-walls with din resound.
Eight sisters and an abbess held the place , person_4 strange to say -- there DISCORD you might trace.
All nine had youth , and many beauty too : Young friars round the place were oft in view , Who reckoned ev ` ry step they took so well , That always in the proper road they fell.
Th ' aged gard ` ner , of whom ere now we spoke , Was oft bewildered , they would so provoke ; Capricious , whimsical , from day to day , Each would command and try to have her way ; person_4 as they ne'er agreed among themselves , person_2 suffered more than if with fifty elves ; When one was pleased , another soon complained : At length to quit the nuns he was constrained.
person_2 left them , poor and wretched as he came ; person_0 cross , pile , money : -- e ` en his coat the same.
A YOUTH of Lamporechio , gay and bold , One day this gard ` ner met as I am told ; person_4 after conversation ` bout the place , Said , he should like nun 's service to embrace , person_4 that he wished sincerely to be hired : person_2 'd gratis do whatever was required.
'Twas clear indeed his object was not pelf ; person_2 thought however he might reward himself ; person_4 as the sisters were not over wise , A nun he now and then might make his prize ; Proceed from one to more with like address , Till with the whole he 'd had complete success.
Said Nuto -LRB- such we find the gard ` ner 's name -RRB- , Believe me , friend , you will be much to blame ; Some other service seek , I recommend ; These convent-dames will ne'er their whimseys end.
I 'd rather live without or soup or bread , Than work for them , however nicely fed.
STRANGE creatures are these nuns , upon my word ; Their ways ridiculous and e ` en absurd ; Who , with the sisterhood , has never been , Has clearly yet , not perfect torment seen , Such service , prithee , never try to gain ; To do what they require I know is vain ; One will have soft , and t ` other asks for hard : Thou ` lt be a fool such ninnies to regard ; person_0 work thou ` lt do , whatever be the want : THIS cabbages , -- THAT carrots tells thee plant : Said t ` other , fain I 'd bring it to the test ; I 'm but a simpleton , it is confessed ; Yet still a month in place , and thou wilt see ; How well I with the convent-dames agree.
The reason is , my life is in its prime , While thou art sunk in years and worn by time , I 'm proper for their work , and only ask , To be admitted to the drudging task.
Well , said the former , if resolved to try , To their factotum instantly apply ; Come ; let 's away.
Lead on , the other cried ; I 've got a thought , which I 'll to you confide : -- I 'll seem an idiot , and quite dumb appear.
-- person_3 that , said Nuto , only persevere , person_4 then perhaps the confessor thou ` lt find , With their factotum carelessly inclined ; person_0 fears nor dark suspicions of a mute : Thou ` lt ev ` ry way , my friend , their wishes suit.
THE place , as was expected , soon he got ; person_4 half the grounds to trench , at once his lot : person_2 acted well the nincompoop and fool , Yet still was steady to the garden tool ; The nuns continually would flock around , person_4 much amusement in his anticks found.
ONE day , as sleeping lay our sprightly wight , Or feigning sleep , no matter which is right , -LRB- Boccace pretends the latter was the fact -RRB- Two nuns -LRB- perhaps not two the most exact , -RRB- Observing him extended on the sward , While summer 's heat from air so much debarred ; That few would venture from the convent-roof , Lest , ` gainst the sun , their cheeks should not be proof : Said one , approaching him , let 's take this fool , person_4 place him in the garden-house to cool.
The lad was handsome , with engaging mien : The nun admired the features she had seen , person_4 Cupid raised a wish to be at ease , Where she , without restraint , herself might please.
What would you , cried the other , with him do ? You 'll see , rejoined the first , if we pursue ; Just what might be expected from the place ; Christ ! said the second -LRB- with a cross of grace -RRB- , You would not surely do what is forbid ? Suppose increase ? it never could be hid ; Besides , should we be seen , ` twill be the cause , Of dire disgrace to break such sacred laws.
WE shall not be observed , the first replied ; These ills thy fancy forms : haste , let 's decide , person_4 seize the moment while ` tis in our reach , Without regard to what old dotards teach , Or what may happen at a future hour ; person_2re 's no one near : ` tis fully in our pow ` r ; The time and place so thoroughly agree , ` Twill be impossible our freaks to see ; person_1 ` twill be right that one should watch with care ; While t ` other with the lad seeks joys to share , person_4 irksome gloom endeavors to dispel : person_2 's dumb , you know , and tales can never tell.
The other answered , since ` tis your desire , I 'll acquiesce and do what you require ; You 'll take him first : I see it is your aim ; person_4 since it will oblige , I 'll wave my claim ; Go , pleasure seek , and satisfy each wish : You 're always anxious for a fav ` rite dish ; ` Tis only to oblige that I comply.
That , said the other , clearly I descry ; I 'm well persuaded , thou art always kind ; person_1 still I think thou would ` st not be inclined ; person_3 such a scene to take the leading part , Thy bashfulness would counteract thy heart.
Some time the squeamish sister watched the spot ; At length the other , who 'd her wishes got , The station took ; the lab ` rer tried to please The second as the first , but less at ease ; So many favors fell not to her share , person_4 only treble comfort proved her fare.
THE garden-path , and summer-house as well , Were well remembered by each wanton belle ; person_0 need of guides ; and soon our spark contrived ; With sister Agnes also to be hived A press-house at the convent end he chose , in which he showed her how soft pleasure flows ; person_0r Claudia nor Angelica would miss The dormitory that , and cellar this ; person_3 short the garret and the vaulted cave Knew fully how the sisters could behave ; person_0t one but what he first or last regaled E ` en with the rigid abbess he prevailed , To take a dance , and as the dame required person_2r treble share of what was most admired , The other nuns were oft obliged to fast , While with the convent-head his time was passed.
To no restoratives our Wight would run ; Though these do little , where much work is done : So oft the lad was pressed for cheering play , That with the abbess , when engaged one day , person_2 said , where'er I go , ` tis common talk , With only sev ` n an able bird should walk , Yet constantly I 've got no less than nine : -- The abbess cried , -- A miracle divine ! person_2re nuns , pray haste , and quickly come around ; We 've fasted with success : -- his tongue is found.
The eight encircled him with great surprise ; person_0 longer dumb.
-- they viewed with eager eyes : A consultation instantly was had , When 'twas agreed to honor well the lad , person_4 try to make him secrecy observe ; person_1 if dismissed , from silence he might swerve.
The active youth , well fed , well paid , thus blessed , Did all he could , -- and others did the rest.
person_2 for the nuns procured a little lot , That afterward two little friars got , person_4 in the sequel fathers soon became ; The sisters mothers too , in spite of shame ; person_1 never name more justly was applied : person_3 vain their mysteries they strove to hide.
\* The parlor in a convent is the room where the nuns are permitted to speak to their friends through a lattice"
NO master sage , nor orator I know , Who can success , like gentle Cupid show ; His ways and arguments are pleasing smiles , Engaging looks , soft tears , and winning wiles.
Wars in his empire will at times arise , person_4 , in the field , his standard meet the eyes ; Now stealing secretly , with skilful lure.
He penetrates to hearts supposed secure , O'erleaps the ramparts that protect around , person_4 citadels reduces , most renowned.
I DARE engage , two fortresses besiege Leave one to Mars , and t ` other to this liege.
person_4 though the god of war should numbers bring , With all the arms that can his thunders fling , Before the fort he 'll vainly waste his time , While Cupid , unattended , in shall climb , Obtain possession perfectly at ease , person_4 grant conditions just as he shall please.
I NOW propose to give a fav ` rite tale : -- The god of Love was never known to fail , In finding stratagems , as I have read , person_4 many have I seen most nicely spread.
THE young person_0 was Gerontes ' wife , With whom she lived , it seems , a wretched life.
Far better she deserved than what she had , For he was jealous , and his temper bad : An aged hunks , while she was in the hour When hearts , that never felt LOVE 'S mighty pow ` r , Are presently by tender objects caught , Which ne'er before had entered in the thought.
WHEN first person_0 saw young person_5 's face , A lad possessing all engaging grace , Much prudence then she ev ` ry way displayed , E ` en more perhaps than necessary made.
For though we may suppose the lovely fair , Would ev ` ry effort use to ` scape the snare , Yet when the god of soft persuasion takes The fatal moment , havock soon he makes , In vain his duty , any thing opposed , If once the tender sentiment 's disclosed.
person_0 consolation had in view 'Twas that alone the passion from her drew , A meeting innocent , to vent her tears , person_4 , to a feeling friend , express her fears.
` Tis represented thus I can not doubt ; person_2 sight of meat brings appetite about ; person_4 if you would avoid the tempting bit , ` Tis better far at table not to sit.
AMINTA hoped to render person_5 kind ; Poor innocent ! as yet to dangers blind , These conversations she was led to deem , Mere friendly ways that raised sincere esteem ; person_4 this alone she ardently desired , Without supposing more would be required , Or any thing improper be the case : She 'd rather die than suffer such disgrace.
'Twas difficult the business to commence ; A letter 's often lost , or gives offence , person_4 many serious accidents arrive : person_1 have a confidant ` twere better strive ; person_2 where could such a female friend be found ? Gerontes dreaded was by all around.
I 've said already , Cupid will obtain , One way or t ` other , what he wants to gain ; person_4 this will show the observation just The maxim 's such as you may always trust.
A FEMALE relative young person_5 had , A peevish prude , who looked upon the lad , As one she had a right to rule and scold ; Her name was Mistress person_3 : sour and old.
ONE summer 's day , person_0 to her said : I can not think how ` tis , your cousin 's led , -LRB- Though quite indifferent he is to me , person_4 doubtless such will ever prove to be -RRB- With various fond attentions , to pretend , He loves me -- much beyond a common friend.
My window oft he passes day and night ; I can not move a step , but he 's in sight , person_4 in a moment at my heels appears ; Notes , letters full of soft expressions , dears , person_1 me are sent by one I will not name , For known to you , she would be thought to blame : Pray put an end to such a wild pursuit It nothing can produce but wretched fruit ; My husband may take fire at things like these ; person_4 as to person_5.
-- me he 'll never please ; I 'll thank you to inform him what I say ; Such steps are useless : folly they betray.
MUCH praise person_0 from the dame received ; Who promised that the conduct , which aggrieved ; person_1 she would mention , as desired , person_4 reprimand him , as the fault required : So well would scold him , that she might be sure , From him in future she would be secure.
THE foll ` wing day our youth to person_3 came ; person_1 pay a visit solely was his aim ; She told him what person_0 had declared , person_4 , in her lecture , words by no means spared.
The lad , surprised , on oath the whole denied , person_4 vowed to gain her love , he never tried.
Old person_3 called her cousin , imp of Hell ; Said she , in all that 's wicked , you excel ; You will not all your base designs confess ; The oaths are false on which you lay such stress , person_4 punishment most richly you deserve ; person_2 false or true , from this I will not swerve , That you should recollect , person_0 's chaste , person_4 never will submit to be disgraced ; Renounce her from this hour ; no more pursue : -- That easily , said person_5 , I can do ; Away he went : the case considered o ` er ; person_2 still the myst ` ry he could not explore.
THREE days had scarcely passed : person_0 came , person_1 pay a visit to our ancient dame ; Cried she I fear , you have not seen as yet , This youth , who worse and worse appears to get.
Rage , Mistress person_3 , instantly o ` erspread , person_4 ev ` ry thing that 's vile she of him said.
NO sooner had person_0 gone away , person_2 she for person_5 sent without delay.
He presently appeared ; yet to detail How person_3 stormed , I certainly should fail ; Unless an iron tongue I could obtain : All Hell was ransacked epithets to gain ; person_4 Lucifer and Beelzebub were used : No mortal ever was so much abused.
QUITE terrified , poor lad , he scarcely knew ; Her fury was so great , what best to do ; If he allowed that he had acted wrong , ` Twould wound his conscience and defile his tongue.
He home repaired , and turning in his mind What he had heard , at length his thoughts inclined , person_1 fancy that person_0 was disposed , person_1 play some cunning trick , which , not disclosed , Would operate to bring her wish about ; I see , said he , the scheme I should not doubt ; It surely is my duty kind to be : Methinks I hear her freely say to me , O person_5 ! show affection , I am yours ; I love her too , for beauty that secures ; person_4 while her seraph charms my bosom fire ; I equally the stratagem admire.
Most freely howsoe'er I will confess , At first I was so dull , I could not guess At what she aimed , but now the object 's plain : person_0 o ` er my heart desires to reign.
THIS minute , if I durst , I 'd thither go , person_4 , full of confidence , declare my woe , The subtle flame that burns without controul ; What hurt to paint feelings of my soul ? From balance of accounts ` twill both exempt : ` Tis better far to love than show contempt.
person_2 should the husband find me in the house ? -- Ne'er think of that , and try the hunks to chouse.
THEIR course had hardly run three other days , When fair person_0 , studious still of ways person_1 have her wish , again to person_3 came , person_1 give dear person_5 notice of her flame.
My home , cried she , ` tis requisite I leave : person_1 ruin me , your cousin , I perceive , Is still resolved , for presents now he sends ; person_2 he mistakes , and blindly wealth expends ; I 'm clearly not the woman he suspects : See here , what jewels rare to please the sex ! Nice rubies , diamonds too , but what is more , My portrait I have found among the store , Which must have been from memory designed , Since only with my husband that you 'll find.
WHEN I arose , this person known to you , Whose name I must conceal -LRB- to honor true -RRB- , Arrived and brought me what I just have shown ; The whole should at your cousin 's head be thrown ; person_4 were he present : -- but I 'll curb my rage ; Allow me to proceed , and you engage person_1 hear the rest : -- he word has also sent , That as to-day he knew my husband went On business to his cottage in the wood , Where he would sleep the night , he understood , No sooner should the servants be in bed , person_4 Morpheus ' robe be o ` er their senses spread , person_2 to my dressing room he would repair : -- What can he hope , such project to declare ? A meeting place indeed ! -- he must be mad ; Were I not fearful ` twould affliction add person_1 my old husband , I would set a watch , Who , at the entrance , should the villain catch ; Or put him instantly to shame and flight ; This said , she presently was out of sight.
AN hour had passed when person_5 came anew ; The jewels at him in a moment flew ; person_4 scarcely Mistress person_3 could refrain , From wreaking further vengeance on the swain.
Is this your plan ? cried she ; but what is worse , I find you still desire a greater curse ; person_4 then she told him all person_0 said , When last to visit her the fair was led.
HIMSELF most fully warned the youth now thought ; I loved , cried he , ` tis true ; but that is naught , Since nothing from the belle I must expect : In future her completely I 'll neglect.
That is the line , said person_3 , you should take ; The lad howe'er was fully now awake , person_4 thoroughly resolved to seek the dame , Whose cunning wiles had set him in a flame.
THE midnight hour the clock no sooner told ; Than person_5 ran the myst ` ry to unfold , person_4 to the spot repaired , which he supposed , person_0 meant , from what had been disclosed ; The place was well described , and there he found ; Awaiting at the door , this belle renowned , Without attendants : sleep their eyes o ` erspread : Behind thick clouds the very stars had fled : As all had been expected , in he went , Most thoroughly they both appeared content ; Few words were used : in haste the pair withdrew , Where ev ` ry wish at ease they might pursue.
The smart gallant at once her beauty praised ; His admiration presently was raised ; Sweet kindness followed ; charms were oft admired ; person_4 all was managed as their hearts desired.
SAID youthful person_5 , now you 'll tell me why This stratagem you were induced to try ? For such before in love was never seen ; ` Tis excellent , and worthy Beauty 's queen.
A lovely blush o ` erspread person_0 's face , person_4 gave her lily-cheeks superior grace.
He praised her person , artifice , and wit , person_4 did whate'er the moments would admit"
HE surely must be wrong who loving fears ; person_3 does not flee when beauty first appears.
Ye FAIR , with charms divine , I know your fame ; No more I 'll burn my fingers in the flame.
From you a soft sensation seems to rise , person_3 , to the heart , advances through the eyes ; What there it causes I 've no need to tell : Some die of love , or languish in the spell.
Far better surely mortals here might do ; There 's no occasion dangers to pursue.
By way of proof a charmer I will bring , Whose beauty to a hermit gave the sting : Thence , save the sin , which fully I except ; A very pleasant intercourse was kept ; Except the sin , again I must repeat , My sentiments on this will never meet The taste of him at Rome , who wine had swilled , Till , to the throat , he thoroughly was filled , person_3 then exclaimed , is ` t not a sin to drink ? Such conduct horrid ever I shall think ; I wish to prove , e ` en saints in fear should live ; The truth is clear : -- our faults may Heav ` n forgive ; If dread of punishment , from pow ` rs divine , Had led this friar in the proper line , He never had the charming girl retained , Who , young and artless , would your heart have gained.
HER name was Alibech , if I recollect ; person_1o innocent , deceptions to detect.
One day this lovely maiden having read , How certain pious , holy saints were led , The better to observe religious care , person_1 seek retirement in some lorn repair , Where they , like Heav ` nly Angels , moved around , Some here , some there , were in concealment found , Was quite delighted , strange as it may seem , person_3 presently she formed the frantick scheme , Of imitating those her mind revered , person_3 to her plan most rigidly adhered.
WITH silent steps the innocent withdrew ; person_1 mothers , sisters , -- none she bade adieu.
Long time she walked through fields , and plain , and dale ; At length she gained a wood within a vale ; There met an aged man , who once might be , Gay , airy , pleasing , blithe , gallant , and free , But now a meager skeleton was seen The shadow only of what late he 'd been : Said she , good father , I have much desire person_1 be a saint : thither my hopes aspire ; I fain would merit reverence and prayer , A festival have kept with anxious care ; What pleasure , ev ` ry year , the palm in hand , person_3 , beaming round the head , a holy band , Nice presents , flow ` rs , and off ` rings to receive Your practice difficult must I believe ? Already I can fast for many days , person_3 soon should learn to follow all your ways.
Go , said the aged man , your plan resign ; I 'd have you , as a friend , the state decline ; ` person_0 not so easy sanctity to meet , That fasting should suffice the boon to greet.
Heav ` n guards from ill the maids and wives who fast , Or holiness would very seldom last.
` person_0 requisite to practice other things ; These secrets are , which move by hidden springs ; A hermit , whom you 'll find beneath yon ' beech , Can , better far than I , their virtues teach ; Go , seek him , pray , make haste if you are sage ; I ne'er retain such birds within my cage.
This having said , at once he left the belle , person_3 wisely shut the door , and barred his cell : Not trusting hair-cloth , fasting , age , nor gout ; With beauty , anchorites themselves should doubt.
OUR pensive fair soon found the person meant , A man whose soul was on religion bent ; His name was person_2 , young and warm in prayer ; Such youthful hermits of deception share.
Her holy wish , the girl to him expressed , A wish most fervent doubtless to be blessed , person_3 felt so strongly , Alibech had fear , Some day the mark might on her fruit appear.
A SMILE her innocence from person_2 drew ; Said he , in me you little learning view ; But what I 've got , I 'll readily divide , person_3 nothing from your senses try to hide.
THE hermit surely would have acted right ; Such pupil to have sent away at sight.
He managed otherwise , as we shall state ; The consequences , let us now relate.
SINCE much he wished perfection to pursue ; He , to himself , exclaimed : what can ` st thou do ? Watch , fast , and pray ; wear hair-cloth too ; but this Is surely little that will lead to bliss ; All do as much , but with a FAIR to dwell , person_3 , never touch her , would be to excel ; ` Twere triumph ` mong the Heav ` nly Angels thought ; Let 's merit it , and keep what here is brought ; If I resist a thing so sweet and kind , I gain the end that pow ` rs divine designed.
HE with him let the charming belle remain ; person_3 confident he could at will abstain , Both Satan and the flesh at once defied : Two foes on mischief ready to decide.
BEHOLD our saints together in a hut ; Young person_2 , where a corner seemed to jut ; A bed of rushes for the novice placed , Since sleeping on the floor had her debased , Who , yet unused to hardships , much must feel : 'Twas best that these should on her senses steal.
A little fruit , and bread not over fine , She had for supper : -- water too for wine.
The hermit fasted ; but the lady fed , person_3 ate with appetite her fruit and bread.
APART their place of rest , the maiden slept , But something quite awake the other kept : The Devil could by no means quiet rest , Till he should get admitted as a guest.
He was received within the humble cell ; The friar 's thoughts were on his smiling belle , Her simple manners , fascinating grace , Complexion , age ; each feature he would trace ; The heaving bosom , and the beauteous charms ; That made him wish to clasp her in his arms.
BY passion moved , he bade at once adieu , person_1 hair-cloth , discipline , and fasting too ; Cried he , my saints are these ; to them I 'll pray ; From Alibech no longer he would stay , But to her flew , and roused the girl from sleep : Said he , so soon you should not silence keep , It is not right : -- there 's something to be done , Ere we suspend the converse we 've begun : ` person_0 proper that , to please the pow ` rs divine ; We Satan instantly in person_4 confine ; He was created for no other end ; person_1 block him up let 's ev ` ry effort lend.
IMMEDIATELY within the bed he slid , When , scarcely knowing what young person_2 did ; person_3 , unaccustomed to the mystick scene , She knew not what the anchorite could mean , Nor this nor that but , partly by consent , person_3 partly force , yet wishing to prevent , Though not presuming to resist his sway person_1 him ` mid pain and pleasure , she gave way , Believing ev ` ry thing was most exact , person_3 , what the saint performed , a gracious act , By thus the Devil shutting up in person_4 , Where he was destined with his imps to dwell.
HENCEFORTH 'twas requisite , if saint she 'd be ; From martyrdom she must not think to flee , For friar person_2 little sought to please : The lesson was not given quite at ease , Which made the girl -LRB- not much improved in wit -RRB- Exclaim , this Devil mischief will commit ; ` person_0 very plain , though strange it may appear person_1 hurt his prison e ` en he 'll persevere ; The injury now you clearly may perceive ; But , for the evil done , I shall not grieve : Yet richly he deserves to be again Shut up effectually in his domain.
IT shall be so , the anchorite replied ; Once more the mystick art was fully tried ; Such care he took , such charity was shown , That person_4 , by use , free with the Devil grown , His presence pleasant always would have found ; Could person_2 equally have kept his ground.
CRIED Alibech , ` tis very truly said , No prison has so nice and soft a bed , But presently the host will weary grow ; person_3 here our pair soon discord seemed to show : person_4 , for the prisoner , in vain inquired ; Deaf was the fiend , and quietly retired ; Repeated calls of course must irksome prove : The fair grew weary , when he would not move ; Her strong desire to be a saint declined ; person_3 to get rid of her designed ; In this with him the belle agreed so well , That secretly she left the hermit 's cell , person_3 home returned in haste the shortest way ; But what the fair could to her parents say , Is what I fain would know , though truly yet ; The full particulars I ne'er could get.
` person_0 probable she made them understand , Her heart was prompted by divine command ; person_1 try to be a saint ; that they believed , Or seemingly for truth the tale received.
Perhaps the parents were not quite exact , In narrowly examining the fact ; Though some suspicions doubtless might arise About her person_4 , they could not well disguise ; But ` tis so formed that little can be seen , person_3 many jailors in it duped have been.
FOR Alibech great feasting was prepared , When , through simplicity , the girl declared , person_1 those around , without the least restraint , How she had acted to be made a saint.
You 'd surely no occasion , they replied , person_1 go so far instruction to provide , When at your house you might have had , with ease , Like secret lectures , just as you should please.
Said one , my brother could the thing have done ; Another cried , -- my cousin would have run person_1 do the same ; or Neherbal , who 's near , No novice in the business would appear ; He seeks your hand , which you 'll be wise to take Before he learns -- what might a diff ` rence make.
She took the hint , and he the fair received ; A handsome fortune many fears relieved ; This joined to num ` rous charms that had the belle ; He fancied pure a most suspicious person_4 , person_3 freely used the blessings Hymen sends ; May Heav ` n like joys bestow on all our friends !"
About a thousand or more years ago , there were in this country nothing but small kings , and one of them who lived on the Keuterberg was very fond of hunting.
Once on a time when he was riding forth from his castle with his huntsmen , three girls were watching their cows upon the mountain , and when they saw the person_0 with all his followers , the eldest girl pointed to him , and called to the two other girls , `` If I do not get that one , I will have none"
Then the second girl answered from the other side of the hill , and pointed to the one who was on the person_0 's right hand , `` Hilloa ! hilloa ! If I do not get him , I will have no one"
These , however , were the two ministers.
The person_0 heard all this , and when he had come back from the chase , he caused the three girls to be brought to him , and asked them what they had said yesterday on the mountain.
This they would not tell him , so the person_0 asked the eldest if she really would take him for her husband ? Then she said , `` Yes ,"
and the two ministers married the two sisters , for they were all three fair and beautiful of face , especially the Queen , who had hair like flax.
But the two sisters had no children , and once when the person_0 was obliged to go from home he invited them to come to the Queen in order to cheer her , for she was about to bear a child.
She had a little boy who brought a bright red star into the world with him.
Then the two sisters said to each other that they would throw the beautiful boy into the water.
When they had thrown him in -LRB- I believe it was into the Weser -RRB- a little bird flew up into the air , which sang , `` To thy death art thou sped , Until God 's word be said.
In the white lily bloom , Brave boy , is thy tomb"
When the two heard that , they were frightened to death , and ran away in great haste.
When the person_0 came home they told him that the Queen had been delivered of a dog.
Then the person_0 said , `` What God does , is well done !"
But a fisherman who dwelt near the water fished the little boy out again while he was still alive , and as his wife had no children , they reared him.
When a year had gone by , the person_0 again went away , and the Queen had another little boy , whom the false sisters likewise took and threw into the water.
Then up flew a little bird again and sang , `` To thy death art thou sped , Until God 's word be said.
In the white lily bloom , Brave boy , is thy tomb"
And when the person_0 came back , they told him that the Queen had once more given birth to a dog , and he again said , `` What God does , is well done"
The fisherman , however , fished this one also out of the water , and reared him.
Then the person_0 again journeyed forth , and the Queen had a little girl , whom also the false sisters threw into the water.
Then again a little bird flew up on high and sang , `` To thy death art thou sped Until God 's word be said.
In the white lily bloom , Bonny girl , is thy tomb"
And when the person_0 came home they told him that the Queen had been delivered of a cat.
Then the person_0 grew angry , and ordered his wife to be cast into prison , and therein was she shut up for many long years.
In the meantime the children had grown up.
Then eldest once went out with some other boys to fish , but the other boys would not have him with them , and said , `` Go thy way , foundling"
Hereupon he was much troubled , and asked the old fisherman if that was true ? The fisherman told him that once when he was fishing he had drawn him out of the water.
So the boy said he would go forth and seek his father.
The fisherman , however , entreated him to stay , but he would not let himself be hindered , and at last the fisherman consented.
Then the boy went on his way and walked for many days , and at last he came to a great piece of water by the side of which stood an old woman fishing.
`` Good day , mother ,"
said the boy.
`` Many thanks ,"
said she.
`` Thou wilt fish long enough before thou catchest anything"
`` And thou wilt seek long enough before thou findest thy father.
How wilt thou get over the water ?"
said the woman.
`` God knows"
Then the old woman took him up on her back and carried him through it , and he sought for a long time , but could not find his father.
When a year had gone by , the second boy set out to seek his brother.
He came to the water , and all fared with him just as with his brother.
And now there was no one at home but the daughter , and she mourned for her brothers so much that at last she also begged the fisherman to let her set forth , for she wished to go in search of her brothers.
Then she likewise came to the great piece of water , and she said to the old woman , `` Good day , mother"
`` Many thanks ,"
replied the old woman.
`` May God help you with your fishing ,"
said the maiden.
When the old woman heard that , she became quite friendly , and carried her over the water , gave her a wand , and said to her , `` Go , my daughter , ever onwards by this road , and when you come to a great black dog , you must pass it silently and boldly , without either laughing or looking at it.
Then you will come to a great high castle , on the threshold of which you must let the wand fall , and go straight through the castle , and out again on the other side.
There you will see an old fountain out of which a large tree has grown , whereon hangs a bird in a cage which you must take down.
Take likewise a glass of water out of the fountain , and with these two things go back by the same way.
Pick up the wand again from the threshold and take it with you , and when you again pass by the dog , strike him in the face with it , but be sure that you hit him , and then just come back here to me"
The maiden found everything exactly as the old woman had said , and on her way back she found her two brothers who had sought each other over half the world.
They went together to the place where the black dog was lying on the road ; she struck it in the face , and it turned into a handsome prince who went with them to the river.
There the old woman was still standing.
She rejoiced much to see them again , and carried them all over the water , and then she too went away , for now she was freed.
The others , however , went to the old fisherman , and all were glad that they had found each other again , but they hung the bird on the wall.
But the second son could not settle at home , and took his cross-bow and went a-hunting.
When he was tired he took his flute , and made music.
The person_0 was hunting too , and heard that and went thither , and when he met the youth , he said , `` Who has given thee leave to hunt here ?"
`` Oh , no one"
`` To whom dost thou belong , then ?"
`` I am the fisherman 's son"
`` But he has no children"
`` If thou wilt not believe , come with me"
That the person_0 did , and questioned the fisherman , who told everything to him , and the little bird on the wall began to sing , `` The mother sits alone There in the prison small , O person_0 of royal blood , These are thy children all.
The sisters twain so false , They wrought the children woe , There in the waters deep Where the fishermen come and go"
Then they were all terrified , and the person_0 took the bird , the fisherman and the three children back with him to the castle , and ordered the prison to be opened and brought his wife out again.
She had , however , grown quite ill and weak.
Then the daughter gave her some of the water of the fountain to drink , and she became strong and healthy.
But the two false sisters were burnt , and the daughter married the prince"
A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse , and had said so much to her about the great love and friendship she felt for her , that at length the mouse agreed that they should live and keep house together.
`` But we must make a provision for winter , or else we shall suffer from hunger ,"
said the cat , `` and you , little mouse , can not venture everywhere , or you will be caught in a trap some day"
The good advice was followed , and a pot of fat was bought , but they did not know where to put it.
At length , after much consideration , the cat said , `` I know no place where it will be better stored up than in the church , for no one dares take anything away from there.
We will set it beneath the altar , and not touch it until we are really in need of it"
So the pot was placed in safety , but it was not long before the cat had a great yearning for it , and said to the mouse , `` I want to tell you something , little mouse ; my cousin has brought a little son into the world , and has asked me to be godmother ; he is white with brown spots , and I am to hold him over the font at the christening.
Let me go out to-day , and you look after the house by yourself"
`` Yes , yes ,"
answered the mouse , `` by all means go , and if you get anything very good , think of me , I should like a drop of sweet red christening wine too"
All this , however , was untrue ; the cat had no cousin , and had not been asked to be godmother.
She went straight to the church , stole to the pot of fat , began to lick at it , and licked the top of the fat off.
Then she took a walk upon the roofs of the town , looked out for opportunities , and then stretched herself in the sun , and licked her lips whenever she thought of the pot of fat , and not until it was evening did she return home.
`` Well , here you are again ,"
said the mouse , `` no doubt you have had a merry day"
`` All went off well ,"
answered the cat.
`` What name did they give the child ?"
`` Top off !"
said the cat quite coolly.
`` Top off !"
cried the mouse , `` that is a very odd and uncommon name , is it a usual one in your family ?"
`` What does it signify ,"
said the cat , `` it is no worse than Crumb-stealer , as your god-children are called"
Before long the cat was seized by another fit of longing.
She said to the mouse , `` You must do me a favor , and once more manage the house for a day alone.
I am again asked to be godmother , and , as the child has a white ring round its neck , I can not refuse"
The good mouse consented , but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church , and devoured half the pot of fat.
`` Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself ,"
said she , and was quite satisfied with her day 's work.
When she went home the mouse inquired , `` And what was this child christened ?"
`` Half-done ,"
answered the cat.
`` Half-done ! What are you saying ? I never heard the name in my life , I 'll wager anything it is not in the calendar !"
The cat 's mouth soon began to water for some more licking.
`` All good things go in threes ,"
said she , `` I am asked to stand godmother again.
The child is quite black , only it has white paws , but with that exception , it has not a single white hair on its whole body ; this only happens once every few years , you will let me go , wo n't you ?"
`` Top-off ! Half-done !"
answered the mouse , `` they are such odd names , they make me very thoughtful"
`` You sit at home ,"
said the cat , `` in your dark-grey fur coat and long tail , and are filled with fancies , that 's because you do not go out in the daytime"
During the cat 's absence the mouse cleaned the house , and put it in order but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat.
`` When everything is eaten up one has some peace ,"
said she to herself , and well filled and fat she did not return home till night.
The mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child.
`` It will not please you more than the others ,"
said the cat.
`` He is called All-gone"
`` All-gone ,"
cried the mouse , `` that is the most suspicious name of all ! I have never seen it in print.
All-gone ; what can that mean ?"
and she shook her head , curled herself up , and lay down to sleep.
From this time forth no one invited the cat to be god-mother , but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside , the mouse thought of their provision , and said , `` Come cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves -- we shall enjoy that"
`` Yes ,"
answered the cat , `` you will enjoy it as much as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the window"
They set out on their way , but when they arrived , the pot of fat certainly was still in its place , but it was empty.
`` Alas !"
said the mouse , `` now I see what has happened , now it comes to light ! You are a true friend ! You have devoured all when you were standing godmother.
First top off , then half done , then --"
`` Will you hold your tongue ,"
cried the cat , `` one word more and I will eat you too"
`` All gone"
was already on the poor mouse 's lips ; scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang on her , seized her , and swallowed her down.
Verily , that is the way of the world"
Once on a time lived a man and a woman who so long as they were rich had no children , but when they were poor they had a little boy.
They could , however , find no godfather for him , so the man said he would just go to another place to see if he could get one there.
As he went , a poor man met him , who asked him where he was going.
He said he was going to see if he could get a godfather , that he was poor , so no one would stand as godfather for him.
`` Oh ,"
said the poor man , `` you are poor , and I am poor ; I will be godfather for you , but I am so ill off I can give the child nothing.
Go home and tell the nurse that she is to come to the church with the child"
When they all got to the church together , the beggar was already there , and he gave the child the name of Ferdinand the Faithful.
When he was going out of the church , the beggar said , `` Now go home , I can give you nothing , and you likewise ought to give me nothing"
But he gave a key to the nurse , and told her when she got home she was to give it to the father , who was to take care of it until the child was fourteen years old , and then he was to go on the heath where there was a castle which the key would fit , and that all which was therein should belong to him.
Now when the child was seven years old and had grown very big , he once went to play with some other boys , and each of them boasted that he had got more from his godfather than the other ; but the child could say nothing , and was vexed , and went home and said to his father , `` Did I get nothing at all , then , from my godfather ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
said the father , `` thou hadst a key if there is a castle standing on the heath , just go to it and open it"
Then the boy went thither , but no castle was to be seen , or heard of.
After seven years more , when he was fourteen years old , he again went thither , and there stood the castle.
When he had opened it , there was nothing within but a horse , a white one.
Then the boy was so full of joy because he had a horse , that he mounted on it and galloped back to his father.
`` Now I have a white horse , and I will travel ,"
said he.
So he set out , and as he was on his way , a pen was lying on the road.
At first he thought he would pick it up , but then again he thought to himself , `` Thou shouldst leave it lying there ; thou wilt easily find a pen where thou art going , if thou hast need of one"
As he was thus riding away , a voice called after him , `` Ferdinand the Faithful , take it with thee"
He looked around , but saw no one , then he went back again and picked it up.
When he had ridden a little way farther , he passed by a lake , and a fish was lying on the bank , gasping and panting for breath , so he said , `` Wait , my dear fish , I will help thee get into the water ,"
and he took hold of it by the tail , and threw it into the lake.
Then the fish put its head out of the water and said , `` As thou hast helped me out of the mud I will give thee a flute ; when thou art in any need , play on it , and then I will help thee , and if ever thou lettest anything fall in the water , just play and I will reach it out to thee"
Then he rode away , and there came to him a man who asked him where he was going.
`` Oh , to the next place"
Then what his name was ? `` Ferdinand the Faithful"
`` So ! then we have got almost the same name , I am called Ferdinand the Unfaithful"
And they both set out to the inn in the nearest place.
Now it was unfortunate that Ferdinand the Unfaithful knew everything that the other had ever thought and everything he was about to do ; he knew it by means of all kinds of wicked arts.
There was , however , in the inn an honest girl , who had a bright face and behaved very prettily.
She fell in love with Ferdinand the Faithful because he was a handsome man , and she asked him whither he was going.
`` Oh , I am just traveling round about ,"
said he.
Then she said he ought to stay there , for the King of that country wanted an attendant or an outrider , and he ought to enter his service.
He answered he could not very well go to any one like that and offer himself.
Then said the maiden , `` Oh , but I will soon do that for you"
And so she went straight to the King , and told him that she knew of an excellent servant for him.
He was well pleased with that , and had Ferdinand the Faithful brought to him , and wanted to make him his servant.
He , however , liked better to be an outrider , for where his horse was , there he also wanted to be , so the King made him an outrider.
When Ferdinand the Unfaithful learned that , he said to the girl , `` What ! Dost thou help him and not me ?"
`` Oh ,"
said the girl , `` I will help thee too"
She thought , `` I must keep friends with that man , for he is not to be trusted"
She went to the King , and offered him as a servant , and the King was willing.
Now when the King met his lords in the morning , he always lamented and said , `` Oh , if I had but my love with me"
Ferdinand the Unfaithful was , however , always hostile to Ferdinand the Faithful.
So once , when the King was complaining thus , he said , `` You have the outrider , send him away to get her , and if he does not do it , his head must be struck off"
Then the King sent for Ferdinand the Faithful , and told him that there was , in this place or in that place , a girl he loved , and that he was to bring her to him , and if he did not do it he should die.
Ferdinand the Faithful went into the stable to his white horse , and complained and lamented , `` Oh , what an unhappy man I am !"
Then someone behind him cried , `` Ferdinand the Faithful , why weepest thou ?"
He looked round but saw no one , and went on lamenting ; `` Oh , my dear little white horse , now must I leave thee ; now must I die"
Then some one cried once more , `` Ferdinand the Faithful , why weepest thou ?"
Then for the first time he was aware that it was his little white horse who was putting that question.
`` Dost thou speak , my little white horse ; canst thou do that ?"
And again , he said , `` I am to go to this place and to that , and am to bring the bride ; canst thou tell me how I am to set about it ?"
Then answered the little white horse , `` Go thou to the King , and say if he will give thou what thou must have , thou wilt get her for him.
If he will give thee a ship full of meat , and a ship full of bread , it will succeed.
Great giants dwell on the lake , and if thou takest no meat with thee for them , they will tear thee to pieces , and there are the large birds which would pick the eyes out of thy head if thou hadst no bread for them"
Then the King made all the butchers in the land kill , and all the bakers bake , that the ships might be filled.
When they were full , the little white horse said to Ferdinand the Faithful , `` Now mount me , and go with me into the ship , and then when the giants come , say , `` Peace , peace , my dear little giants , I have had thought of ye , Something I have brought for ye ;"
and when the birds come , thou shalt again say , `` Peace , peace , my dear little birds , I have had thought of ye , Something I have brought for ye ;"
then they will do nothing to thee , and when thou comest to the castle , the giants will help thee.
Then go up to the castle , and take a couple of giants with thee.
There the princess lies sleeping ; thou must , however , not awaken her , but the giants must lift her up , and carry her in her bed to the ship"
And now everything took place as the little white horse had said , and Ferdinand the Faithful gave the giants and the birds what he had brought with him for them , and that made the giants willing , and they carried the princess in her bed to the King.
And when she came to the King , she said she could not live , she must have her writings , they had been left in her castle.
Then by the instigation of Ferdinand the Unfaithful , Ferdinand the Faithful was called , and the King told him he must fetch the writings from the castle , or he should die.
Then he went once more into the stable , and bemoaned himself and said , `` Oh , my dear little white horse , now I am to go away again , how am I to do it ?"
Then the little white horse said he was just to load the ships full again.
So it happened again as it had happened before , and the giants and the birds were satisfied , and made gentle by the meat.
When they came to the castle , the white horse told Ferdinand the Faithful that he must go in , and that on the table in the princess 's bed-room lay the writings.
And Ferdinand the Faithful went in , and fetched them.
When they were on the lake , he let his pen fall into the water ; then said the white horse , `` Now I can not help thee at all"
But he remembered his flute , and began to play on it , and the fish came with the pen in its mouth , and gave it to him.
So he took the writings to the castle , where the wedding was celebrated.
The Queen , however , did not love the King because he had no nose , but she would have much liked to love Ferdinand the Faithful.
Once , therefore , when all the lords of the court were together , the Queen said she could do feats of magic , that she could cut off any one 's head and put it on again , and that one of them ought just to try it.
But none of them would be the first , so Ferdinand the Faithful , again at the instigation of Ferdinand the Unfaithful , undertook it and she hewed off his head , and put it on again for him , and it healed together directly , so that it looked as if he had a red thread round his throat.
Then the King said to her , `` My child , and where hast thou learned that ?"
`` Yes ,"
she said , `` I understand the art ; shall I just try it on thee also ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
said he.
But she cut off his head , and did not put it on again ; but pretended that she could not get it on , and that it would not keep fixed.
Then the King was buried , but she married Ferdinand the Faithful.
He , however , always rode on his white horse , and once when he was seated on it , it told him that he was to go on to the heath which he knew , and gallop three times round it.
And when he had done that , the white horse stood up on its hind legs , and was changed into a King 's son"
by Brothers Grimm There was once on a time a miller , who had a beautiful daughter , and as she was grown up , he wished that she was provided for , and well married.
He thought , `` If any good suitor comes and asks for her , I will give her to him"
Not long afterwards , a suitor came , who appeared to be very rich , and as the miller had no fault to find with him , he promised his daughter to him.
The maiden , however , did not like him quite so much as a girl should like the man to whom she is engaged , and had no confidence in him.
Whenever she saw , or thought of him , she felt a secret horror.
Once he said to her , `` Thou art my betrothed , and yet thou hast never once paid me a visit"
The maiden replied , `` I know not where thy house is"
Then said the bridegroom , `` My house is out there in the dark forest"
She tried to excuse herself and said she could not find the way there.
The bridegroom said , `` Next Sunday thou must come out there to me ; I have already invited the guests , and I will strew ashes in order that thou mayst find thy way through the forest"
When Sunday came , and the maiden had to set out on her way , she became very uneasy , she herself knew not exactly why , and to mark her way she filled both her pockets full of peas and lentils.
Ashes were strewn at the entrance of the forest , and these she followed , but at every step she threw a couple of peas on the ground.
She walked almost the whole day until she reached the middle of the forest , where it was the darkest , and there stood a solitary house , which she did not like , for it looked so dark and dismal.
She went inside it , but no one was within , and the most absolute stillness reigned.
Suddenly a voice cried , `` Turn back , turn back , young maiden dear , ` person_0 a murderer 's house you enter here"
The maiden looked up , and saw that the voice came from a bird , which was hanging in a cage on the wall.
Again it cried , `` Turn back , turn back , young maiden dear , ` person_0 a murderer 's house you enter here"
Then the young maiden went on farther from one room to another , and walked through the whole house , but it was entirely empty and not one human being was to be found.
At last she came to the the cellar , and there sat an extremely aged woman , whose head shook constantly.
`` Can you not tell me ,"
said the maiden , `` if my betrothed lives here ?"
`` Alas , poor child ,"
replied the old woman , `` whither hast thou come ? Thou art in a murderer 's den.
Thou thinkest thou art a bride soon to be married , but thou wilt keep thy wedding with death.
Look , I have been forced to put a great kettle on there , with water in it , and when they have thee in their power , they will cut thee to pieces without mercy , will cook thee , and eat thee , for they are eaters of human flesh.
If I do not have compassion on thee , and save thee , thou art lost"
Thereupon the old woman led her behind a great hogshead where she could not be seen.
`` Be as still as a mouse ,"
said she , `` do not make a sound , or move , or all will be over with thee.
At night , when the robbers are asleep , we will escape ; I have long waited for an opportunity"
Hardly was this done , than the godless crew came home.
They dragged with them another young girl.
They were drunk , and paid no heed to her screams and lamentations.
They gave her wine to drink , three glasses full , one glass of white wine , one glass of red , and a glass of yellow , and with this her heart burst in twain.
Thereupon they tore off her delicate raiment , laid her on a table , cut her beautiful body in pieces and strewed salt thereon.
The poor bride behind the cask trembled and shook , for she saw right well what fate the robbers had destined for her.
One of them noticed a gold ring on the little finger of the murdered girl , and as it would not come off at once , he took an axe and cut the finger off , but it sprang up in the air , away over the cask and fell straight into the bride 's bosom.
The robber took a candle and wanted to look for it , but could not find it.
Then another of them said , `` Hast thou looked behind the great hogshead ?"
But the old woman cried , `` Come and get something to eat , and leave off looking till the morning , the finger wo n't run away from you"
Then the robbers said , `` The old woman is right ,"
and gave up their search , and sat down to eat , and the old woman poured a sleeping-draught in their wine , so that they soon lay down in the cellar , and slept and snored.
When the bride heard that , she came out from behind the hogshead , and had to step over the sleepers , for they lay in rows on the ground , and great was her terror lest she should waken one of them.
But God helped her , and she got safely over.
The old woman went up with her , opened the doors , and they hurried out of the murderers ' den with all the speed in their power.
The wind had blown away the strewn ashes , but the peas and lentils had sprouted and grown up , and showed them the way in the moonlight.
They walked the whole night , until in the morning they arrived at the mill , and then the maiden told her father everything exactly as it had happened.
When the day came when the wedding was to be celebrated , the bridegroom appeared , and the Miller had invited all his relations and friends.
As they sat at table , each was bidden to relate something.
The bride sat still , and said nothing.
Then said the bridegroom to the bride , `` Come , my darling , dost thou know nothing ? Relate something to us like the rest"
She replied , `` Then I will relate a dream.
I was walking alone through a wood , and at last I came to a house , in which no living soul was , but on the wall there was a bird in a cage which cried , `` Turn back , turn back , young maiden dear , ` person_0 a murderer 's house you enter here"
And this it cried once more.
` My darling , I only dreamt this.
Then I went through all the rooms , and they were all empty , and there was something so horrible about them ! At last I went down into the cellar , and there sat a very very old woman , whose head shook ; I asked her , ` Does my bridegroom live in this house ? She answered , ` Alas poor child , thou hast got into a murderer 's den , thy bridegroom does live here , but he will hew thee in pieces , and kill thee , and then he will cook thee , and eat thee.
' My darling , I only dreamt this.
But the old woman hid me behind a great hogshead , and , scarcely was I hidden , when the robbers came home , dragging a maiden with them , to whom they gave three kinds of wine to drink , white , red , and yellow , with which her heart broke in twain.
My darling , I only dreamt this.
Thereupon they pulled off her pretty clothes , and hewed her fair body in pieces on a table , and sprinkled them with salt.
My darling , I only dreamt this.
And one of the robbers saw that there was still a ring on her little finger , and as it was hard to draw off , he took an axe and cut it off , but the finger sprang up in the air , and sprang behind the great hogshead , and fell in my bosom.
And there is the finger with the ring !"
And with these words she drew it forth , and showed it to those present.
The robber , who had during this story become as pale as ashes , leapt up and wanted to escape , but the guests held him fast , and delivered him over to justice.
Then he and his whole troop were executed for their infamous deeds"
Three army-surgeons who thought they knew their art perfectly , were traveling about the world , and they came to an inn where they wanted to pass the night.
The host asked whence they came , and whither they were going ? `` We are roaming about the world and practising our art"
`` Just show me for once in a way what you can do ,"
said the host.
Then the first said he would cut off his hand , and put it on again early next morning ; the second said he would tear out his heart , and replace it next morning ; the third said he would cut out his eyes and heal them again next morning.
`` If you can do that ,"
said the innkeeper , `` you have learned everything"
They , however , had a salve , with which they rubbed themselves , which joined parts together , and they carried the little bottle in which it was , constantly with them.
Then they cut the hand , heart and eyes from their bodies as they had said they would , and laid them all together on a plate , and gave it to the innkeeper.
The innkeeper gave it to a servant who was to set it in the cupboard , and take good care of it.
The girl , however , had a lover in secret , who was a soldier.
When therefore the innkeeper , the three army-surgeons , and everyone else in the house were asleep , the soldier came and wanted something to eat.
The girl opened the cupboard and brought him some food , and in her love forgot to shut the cupboard-door again ; She seated herself at the table by her lover , and they chattered away together.
While she sat so contentedly there , thinking of no ill luck , the cat came creeping in , found the cupboard open , took the hand and heart and eyes of the three army-surgeons , and ran off with them.
When the soldier had done eating , and the girl was taking away the things and going to shut the cupboard she saw that the plate which the innkeeper had given her to take care of , was empty.
Then she said in a fright to her lover , `` Ah , miserable girl , what shall I do ? The hand is gone , the heart and the eyes are gone too , what will become of me in the morning ?"
`` Be easy ,"
said he , `` I will help thee out of thy trouble there is a thief hanging outside on the gallows , I will cut off his hand.
Which hand was it ?"
`` The right one"
Then the girl gave him a sharp knife , and he went and cut the poor sinner 's right hand off , and brought it to her.
After this he caught the cat and cut its eyes out , and now nothing but the heart was wanting.
`` Have you not been killing , and are not the dead pigs in the cellar ?"
said he.
`` Yes ,"
said the girl.
`` That 's well ,"
said the soldier , and he went down and fetched a pig 's heart.
The girl placed all together on the plate , and put it in the cupboard , and when after this her lover took leave of her , she went quietly to bed.
In the morning when the three army-surgeons got up , they told the girl she was to bring them the plate on which the hand , heart , and eyes were lying.
Then she brought it out of the cupboard , and the first fixed the thief 's hand on and smeared it with his salve , and it grew to his arm directly.
The second took the cat 's eyes and put them in his own head.
The third fixed the pig 's heart firm in the place where his own had been , and the innkeeper stood by , admired their skill , and said he had never yet seen such a thing as that done , and would sing their praises and recommend them to everyone.
Then they paid their bill , and traveled farther.
As they were on their way , the one with the pig 's heart did not stay with them at all , but wherever there was a corner he ran to it , and rooted about in it with his nose as pigs do.
The others wanted to hold him back by the tail of his coat , but that did no good ; he tore himself loose , and ran wherever the dirt was thickest.
The second also behaved very strangely ; he rubbed his eyes , and said to the others , `` Comrades , what is the matter ? I do n't see at all.
Will one of you lead me , so that I do not fall"
Then with difficulty they traveled on till evening , when they reached another inn.
They went into the bar together , and there at a table in the corner sat a rich man counting money.
The one with the thief 's hand walked round about him , made a sudden movement twice with his arm , and at last when the stranger turned away , he snatched at the pile of money , and took a handful from it.
One of them saw this , and said , `` Comrade , what art thou about ? Thou must not steal shame on thee !"
`` Eh ,"
said he , `` but how can I stop myself ? My hand twitches , and I am forced to snatch things whether I will or not"
After this , they lay down to sleep , and while they were lying there it was so dark that no one could see his own hand.
All at once the one with the cat 's eyes awoke , aroused the others , and said.
`` Brothers , just look up , do you see the white mice running about there ?"
The two sat up , but could see nothing.
Then said he , `` Things are not right with us , we have not got back again what is ours.
We must return to the innkeeper , he has deceived us"
They went back therefore , the next morning , and told the host they had not got what was their own again ; that the first had a thief 's hand , the second cat 's eyes , and the third a pig 's heart.
The innkeeper said that the girl must be to blame for that , and was going to call her , but when she had seen the three coming , she had run out by the backdoor , and not come back.
Then the three said he must give them a great deal of money , or they would set his house on fire.
He gave them what he had , and whatever he could get together , and the three went away with it.
It was enough for the rest of their lives , but they would rather have had their own proper organs"
Long ago the Bodisat was born to a forest life as the Genius of a tree standing near a certain lotus pond.
Now at that time the water used to run short at the dry season in a certain pond , not over large , in which there were a good many fish.
And a crane thought on seeing the fish.
`` I must outwit these fish somehow or other and make a prey of them"
And he went and sat down at the edge of the water , thinking how he should do it.
When the fish saw him , they asked him , `` What are you sitting there for , lost in thought ?"
`` I am sitting thinking about you ,"
said he.
`` Oh , sir ! what are you thinking about us ?"
said they.
`` Why ,"
he replied ; `` there is very little water in this pond , and but little for you to eat ; and the heat is so great ! So I was thinking , ` What in the world will these fish do now ? '"
`` Yes , indeed , sir ! what _ are _ we to do ?"
said they.
`` If you will only do as I bid you , I will take you in my beak to a fine large pond , covered with all the kinds of lotuses , and put you into it ,"
answered the crane.
`` That a crane should take thought for the fishes is a thing unheard of , sir , since the world began.
It 's eating us , one after the other , that you 're aiming at"
`` Not I ! So long as you trust me , I wo n't eat you.
But if you do n't believe me that there is such a pond , send one of you with me to go and see it"
Then they trusted him , and handed over to him one of their number -- a big fellow , blind of one eye , whom they thought sharp enough in any emergency , afloat or ashore.
Him the crane took with him , let him go in the pond , showed him the whole of it , brought him back , and let him go again close to the other fish.
And he told them all the glories of the pond.
And when they heard what he said , they exclaimed , `` All right , sir ! You may take us with you"
Then the crane took the old purblind fish first to the bank of the other pond , and alighted in a person_0-tree growing on the bank there.
But he threw it into a fork of the tree , struck it with his beak , and killed it ; and then ate its flesh , and threw its bones away at the foot of the tree.
Then he went back and called out : `` I 've thrown that fish in ; let another one come"
And in that manner he took all the fish , one by one , and ate them , till he came back and found no more ! But there was still a crab left behind there ; and the crane thought he would eat him too , and called out : `` I say , good crab , I 've taken all the fish away , and put them into a fine large pond.
Come along.
I 'll take you too !"
`` But how will you take hold of me to carry me along ?"
`` I 'll bite hold of you with my beak"
`` You 'll let me fall if you carry me like that.
I wo n't go with you !"
`` Do n't be afraid ! I 'll hold you quite tight all the way"
Then said the crab to himself , `` If this fellow once got hold of fish , he would never let them go in a pond ! Now if he should really put me into the pond , it would be capital ; but if he does n't -- then I 'll cut his throat , and kill him !"
So he said to him : `` Look here , friend , you wo n't be able to hold me tight enough ; but we crabs have a famous grip.
If you let me catch hold of you round the neck with my claws , I shall be glad to go with you"
And the other did not see that he was trying to outwit him , and agreed.
So the crab caught hold of his neck with his claws as securely as with a pair of blacksmith 's pincers , and called out , `` Off with you , now !"
And the crane took him and showed him the pond , and then turned off towards the person_0-tree.
`` Uncle !"
cried the crab , `` the pond lies that way , but you are taking me this way !"
`` Oh , that 's it , is it ?"
answered the crane.
`` Your dear little uncle , your very sweet nephew , you call me ! You mean me to understand , I suppose , that I am your slave , who has to lift you up and carry you about with him ! Now cast your eye upon the heap of fish-bones lying at the root of yonder person_0-tree.
Just as I have eaten those fish , every one of them , just so I will devour you as well !"
`` Ah ! those fishes got eaten through their own stupidity ,"
answered the crab ; `` but I 'm not going to let you eat _ me _.
On the contrary , is it _ you _ that I am going to destroy.
For you in your folly have not seen that I was outwitting you.
If we die , we die both together ; for I will cut off this head of yours , and cast it to the ground !"
And so saying , he gave the crane 's neck a grip with his claws , as with a vice.
Then gasping , and with tears trickling from his eyes , and trembling with the fear of death , the crane beseeched him , saying , `` O my Lord ! Indeed I did not intend to eat you.
Grant me my life !"
`` Well , well ! step down into the pond , and put me in there"
And he turned round and stepped down into the pond , and placed the crab on the mud at its edge.
But the crab cut through its neck as clean as one would cut a lotus-stalk with a hunting-knife , and then only entered the water ! When the Genius who lived in the person_0-tree saw this strange affair , he made the wood resound with his plaudits , uttering in a pleasant voice the verse : `` The villain , though exceeding clever , Shall prosper not by his villainy.
He may win indeed , sharp-witted in deceit , But only as the Crane here from the Crab !"
An aged count once lived in Switzerland , who had an only son , but he was stupid , and could learn nothing.
Then said the father , `` Hark thee , my son , I can get nothing into thy head , let me try as I will.
Thou must go from hence , I will give thee into the care of a celebrated master , who shall see what he can do with thee"
The youth was sent into a strange town , and remained a whole year with the master.
At the end of this time , he came home again , and his father asked , `` Now , my son , what hast thou learned ?"
`` Father , I have learned what the dogs say when they bark"
`` Lord have mercy on us !"
cried the father ; `` is that all thou hast learned ? I will send thee into another town , to another master"
The youth was taken thither , and stayed a year with this master likewise.
When he came back the father again asked , `` My son , what hast thou learned ?"
He answered , `` Father , I have learned what the birds say"
Then the father fell into a rage and said , `` Oh , thou lost man , thou hast spent the precious time and learned nothing ; art thou not ashamed to appear before mine eyes ? I will send thee to a third master , but if thou learnest nothing this time also , I will no longer be thy father"
The youth remained a whole year with the third master also , and when he came home again , and his father inquired , `` My son , what hast thou learned ?"
he answered , `` Dear father , I have this year learned what the frogs croak"
Then the father fell into the most furious anger , sprang up , called his people thither , and said , `` This man is no longer my son , I drive him forth , and command you to take him out into the forest , and kill him"
They took him forth , but when they should have killed him , they could not do it for pity , and let him go , and they cut the eyes and the tongue out of a deer that they might carry them to the old man as a token.
The youth wandered on , and after some time came to a fortress where he begged for a night 's lodging.
`` Yes ,"
said the lord of the castle , `` if thou wilt pass the night down there in the old tower , go thither ; but I warn thee , it is at the peril of thy life , for it is full of wild dogs , which bark and howl without stopping , and at certain hours a man has to be given to them , whom they at once devour"
The whole district was in sorrow and dismay because of them , and yet no one could do anything to stop this.
The youth , however , was without fear , and said , `` Just let me go down to the barking dogs , and give me something that I can throw to them ; they will do nothing to harm me"
As he himself would have it so , they gave him some food for the wild animals , and led him down to the tower.
When he went inside , the dogs did not bark at him , but wagged their tails quite amicably around him , ate what he set before them , and did not hurt one hair of his head.
Next morning , to the astonishment of everyone , he came out again safe and unharmed , and said to the lord of the castle , `` The dogs have revealed to me , in their own language , why they dwell there , and bring evil on the land.
They are bewitched , and are obliged to watch over a great treasure which is below in the tower , and they can have no rest until it is taken away , and I have likewise learned , from their discourse , how that is to be done"
Then all who heard this rejoiced , and the lord of the castle said he would adopt him as a son if he accomplished it successfully.
He went down again , and as he knew what he had to do , he did it thoroughly , and brought a chest full of gold out with him.
The howling of the wild dogs was henceforth heard no more ; they had disappeared , and the country was freed from the trouble.
After some time he took it into his head that he would travel to Rome.
On the way he passed by a marsh , in which a number of frogs were sitting croaking.
He listened to them , and when he became aware of what they were saying , he grew very thoughtful and sad.
At last he arrived in Rome , where the Pope had just died , and there was great difficulty as to whom they should appoint as his successor.
They at length agreed that the person should be chosen as pope who should be distinguished by some divine and miraculous token.
And just as that was decided on , the young count entered into the church , and suddenly two snow-white doves flew on his shoulders and remained sitting there.
The ecclesiastics recognized therein the token from above , and asked him on the spot if he would be pope.
He was undecided , and knew not if he were worthy of this , but the doves counselled him to do it , and at length he said yes.
Then was he anointed and consecrated , and thus was fulfilled what he had heard from the frogs on his way , which had so affected him , that he was to be his Holiness the Pope.
Then he had to sing a mass , and did not know one word of it , but the two doves sat continually on his shoulders , and said it all in his ear"
Once on a time there lived a person_0 and a Queen , who were rich , and had everything they wanted , but no children.
The Queen lamented over this day and night , and said , `` I am like a field on which nothing grows"
At last God gave her her wish , but when the child came into the world , it did not look like a human child , but was a little donkey.
When the mother saw that , her lamentations and outcries began in real earnest ; she said she would far rather have had no child at all than have a donkey , and that they were to throw it into the water that the fishes might devour it.
But the person_0 said , `` No , since God has sent him he shall be my son and heir , and after my death sit on the royal throne , and wear the kingly crown"
The donkey , therefore , was brought up and grew bigger , and his ears grew up beautifully high and straight.
He was , however , of a merry disposition , jumped about , played and had especial pleasure in music , so that he went to a celebrated musician and said , `` Teach me thine art , that I may play the lute as well as thou dost"
`` Ah , dear little master ,"
answered the musician , `` that would come very hard to you , your fingers are certainly not suited to it , and are far too big.
I am afraid the strings would not last"
No excuses were of any use.
The donkey was determined to play the lute ; he was persevering and industrious , and at last learned to do it as well as the master himself.
The young lordling once went out walking full of thought and came to a well , he looked into it and in the mirror-clear water saw his donkey 's form.
He was so distressed about it , that he went out into the wide world and only took with him one faithful companion.
They traveled up and down , and at last they came into a kingdom where an old person_0 reigned who had an only but wonderfully beautiful daughter.
The donkey said , `` Here we will stay ,"
knocked at the gate , and cried , `` A guest is without open , that he may enter"
As , however , the gate was not opened , he sat down , took his lute and played it in the most delightful manner with his two fore-feet.
Then the door-keeper opened his eyes most wonderfully wide , and ran to the person_0 and said , `` Outside by the gate sits a young donkey which plays the lute as well as an experienced master !"
`` Then let the musician come to me ,"
said the person_0.
When , however , a donkey came in , every one began to laugh at the lute-player.
And now the donkey was asked to sit down and eat with the servants.
He , however , was unwilling , and said , `` I am no common stable-ass , I am a noble one"
Then they said , `` If that is what thou art , seat thyself with the men of war"
`` No ,"
said he , `` I will sit by the person_0"
The person_0 smiled , and said good-humouredly , `` Yes , it shall be as thou wilt , little ass , come here to me"
Then he asked , `` Little ass , how does my daughter please thee ?"
The donkey turned his head towards her , looked at her , nodded and said , `` I like her above measure , I have never yet seen anyone so beautiful as she is"
`` Well , then , thou shalt sit next her too ,"
said the person_0.
`` That is exactly what I wish ,"
said the donkey , and he placed himself by her side , ate and drank , and knew how to behave himself daintily and cleanly.
When the noble beast had stayed a long time at the person_0 's court , he thought , `` What good does all this do me , I shall still have to go home again ?"
let his head hang sadly , and went to the person_0 and asked for his dismissal.
But the person_0 had grown fond of him , and said , `` Little ass , what ails thee ? Thou lookest as sour as a jug of vinegar , I will give thee what thou wantest.
Dost thou want gold ?"
`` No ,"
said the donkey , and shook his head.
`` Dost thou want jewels and rich dress ?"
`` No"
`` Dost thou wish for half my kingdom ?"
`` Indeed , no"
Then said the person_0 , `` if I did but know what would make thee content.
Wilt thou have my pretty daughter to wife ?"
`` Ah , yes ,"
said the ass , `` I should indeed like her ,"
and all at once he became quite merry and full of happiness , for that was exactly what he was wishing for.
So a great and splendid wedding was held.
In the evening , when the bride and bridegroom were led into their bed-room , the person_0 wanted to know if the ass would behave well , and ordered a servant to hide himself there.
When they were both within , the bridegroom bolted the door , looked around , and as he believed that they were quite alone , he suddenly threw off his ass 's skin , and stood there in the form of a handsome royal youth.
`` Now ,"
said he , `` thou seest who I am , and seest also that I am not unworthy of thee"
Then the bride was glad , and kissed him , and loved him dearly.
When morning came , he jumped up , put his animal 's skin on again , and no one could have guessed what kind of a form was hidden beneath it.
Soon came the old person_0 , `` Ah ,"
cried he , `` is the little ass merry ? But surely thou art sad ?"
said he to his daughter , `` that thou hast not got a proper man for thy husband ?"
`` Oh , no , dear father , I love him as well as if he were the handsomest in the world , and I will keep him as long as I live"
The person_0 was surprised , but the servant who had concealed himself came and revealed everything to him.
The person_0 said , `` That can not be true"
`` Then watch yourself the next night , and you will see it with your own eyes ; and hark you , lord person_0 , if you were to take his skin away and throw it in the fire , he would be forced to show himself in his true shape"
`` Thy advice is good ,"
said the person_0 , and at night when they were asleep , he stole in , and when he got to the bed he saw by the light of the moon a noble-looking youth lying there , and the skin lay stretched on the ground.
So he took it away , and had a great fire lighted outside , and threw the skin into it , and remained by it himself until it was all burnt to ashes.
As , however , he was anxious to know how the robbed man would behave himself , he stayed awake the whole night and watched.
When the youth had slept his sleep out , he got up by the first light of morning , and wanted to put on the ass 's skin , but it was not to be found.
On this he was alarmed , and , full of grief and anxiety , said , `` Now I shall have to contrive to escape"
But when he went out , there stood the person_0 , who said , `` My son , whither away in such haste ? what hast thou in mind ? Stay here , thou art such a handsome man , thou shalt not go away from me.
I will now give thee half my kingdom , and after my death thou shalt have the whole of it"
`` Then I hope that what begins so well may end well , and I will stay with you ,"
said the youth.
And the old man gave him half the kingdom , and in a year 's time , when he died , the youth had the whole , and after the death of his father he had another kingdom as well , and lived in all magnificence"
A sheep-dog had not a good master , but , on the contrary , one who let him suffer hunger.
As he could stay no longer with him , he went quite sadly away.
On the road he met a sparrow who said , `` Brother dog , why art thou so sad ?"
The dog replied , `` I am hungry , and have nothing to eat"
Then said the sparrow , `` Dear brother , come into the town with me , and I will satisfy thy hunger"
So they went into the town together , and when they came in front of a butcher 's shop the sparrow said to the dog , `` Stay there , and I will pick a bit of meat down for thee ,"
and he alighted on the stall , looked about him to see that no one was observing him , and pecked and pulled and tore so long at a piece which lay on the edge , that it slipped down.
Then the dog seized it , ran into a corner , and devoured it.
The sparrow said , `` Now come with me to another shop , and then I will get thee one more piece that thou mayst be satisfied"
When the dog had devoured the second piece as well , the sparrow asked , `` Brother dog , hast thou now had enough ?"
`` Yes , I have had meat enough ,"
he answered , `` but I have had no bread yet"
Said the sparrow , `` Thou shalt have that also , come with me"
Then he took him to a baker 's shop , and pecked at a couple of little buns till they rolled down , and as the dog wanted still more , he led him to another stall , and again got bread for him.
When that was consumed , the sparrow said , `` Brother dog , hast thou now had enough ?"
`` Yes ,"
he replied , `` now we will walk awhile outside the town"
Then they both went out on to the highway.
It was , however , warm weather , and when they had walked a little way the dog said , `` I am tired , and would like to sleep"
`` Well , do sleep ,"
answered the sparrow , `` and in the meantime I will seat myself on a branch"
So the dog lay down on the road , and fell fast asleep.
Whilst he lay sleeping there , a waggoner came driving by , who had a cart with three horses , laden with two barrels of wine.
The sparrow , however , saw that he was not going to turn aside , but was staying in the wheel track in which the dog was lying , so it cried , `` Waggoner , do n't do it , or I will make thee poor"
The waggoner , however , growled to himself , `` Thou wilt not make me poor ,"
and cracked his whip and drove the cart over the dog , and the wheels killed him.
Then the sparrow cried , `` Thou hast run over my brother dog and killed him , it shall cost thee thy cart and horses"
`` Cart and horses indeed !"
said the waggoner.
`` What harm canst thou do me ?"
and drove onwards.
Then the sparrow crept under the cover of the cart , and pecked so long at the same bung-hole that he got the bung out , and then all the wine ran out without the driver noticing it.
But once when he was looking behind him he saw that the cart was dripping , and looked at the barrels and saw that one of them was empty.
`` Unfortunate fellow that I am ,"
cried he.
`` Not unfortunate enough yet ,"
said the sparrow , and flew on to the head of one of the horses and pecked his eyes out.
When the driver saw that , he drew out his axe and wanted to hit the sparrow , but the sparrow flew into the air , and he hit his horse on the head , and it fell down dead.
`` Oh , what an unfortunate man I am ,"
cried he.
`` Not unfortunate enough yet ,"
said the sparrow , and when the driver drove on with the two hoses , the sparrow again crept under the cover , and pecked the bung out of the second cask , so all the wine was spilt.
When the driver became aware of it , he again cried , `` Oh , what an unfortunate man I am ,"
but the sparrow replied , `` Not unfortunate enough yet ,"
and seated himself on the head of the second horse , and pecked his eyes out.
The driver ran up to it and raised his axe to strike , but the sparrow flew into the air and the blow struck the horse , which fell.
`` Oh , what an unfortunate man I am"
`` Not unfortunate enough yet ,"
said the sparrow , and lighted on the third horse 's head , and pecked out his eyes.
The driver , in his rage , struck at the sparrow without looking round , and did not hit him but killed his third horse likewise.
`` Oh , what an unfortunate man I am ,"
cried he.
`` Not unfortunate enough yet ,"
answered the sparrow.
`` Now will I make thee unfortunate in thy home ,"
and flew away.
The driver had to leave the waggon standing , and full of anger and vexation went home.
`` Ah ,"
said he to his wife , `` what misfortunes I have had ! My wine has run out , and the horses are all three dead !"
`` Alas , husband ,"
she answered , `` what a malicious bird has come into the house ! It has gathered together every bird there is in the world , and they have fallen on our corn up there , and are devouring it"
Then he went upstairs , and thousands and thousands of birds were sitting in the loft and had eaten up all the corn , and the sparrow was sitting in the midst of them.
Then the driver cried , `` Oh , what an unfortunate man I am ?"
`` Not unfortunate enough yet !"
answered the sparrow ; `` waggoner , it shall cost thee thy life as well ,"
and flew out.
Then the waggoner had lost all his property , and he went downstairs into the room , sat down behind the stove and was quite furious and bitter.
But the sparrow sat outside in front of the window , and cried , `` Waggoner , it shall cost thee thy life"
Then the waggoner snatched the axe and threw it at the sparrow , but it only broke the window , and did not hit the bird.
The sparrow now hopped in , placed itself on the stove and cried , `` Waggoner , it shall cost thee thy life"
The latter , quite mad and blind with rage , smote the stove in twain , and as the sparrow flew from one place to another so it fared with all his household furniture , looking-glass , benches , table , and at last the walls of his house , and yet he could not hit the bird.
At length , however , he caught it with his hand.
Then his wife said , `` Shall I kill it ?"
`` No ,"
cried he , `` that would be too merciful.
It shall die much more cruelly ,"
and he took it and swallowed it whole.
The sparrow , however , began to flutter about in his body , and fluttered up again into the man 's mouth ; then it stretched out its head , and cried , `` Waggoner , it shall still cost thee thy life"
The driver gave the axe to his wife , and said , `` Wife , kill the bird in my mouth for me"
The woman struck , but missed her blow , and hit the waggoner right on his head , so that he fell dead.
But the sparrow flew up and away"
There was once a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie.
And when she had grown up her father said , `` We will get her married"
`` Yes ,"
said the mother ; `` if only any one would come who would have her"
At length a man came from a distance and wooed her , who was called Hans ; but he stipulated that Clever Elsie should be really wise.
`` Oh ,"
said the father , `` she 's sharp enough ;"
and the mother said , `` Oh , she can see the wind coming up the street , and hear the flies coughing"
`` Well ,"
said Hans , `` if she is not really wise , I wo n't have her"
When they were sitting at dinner and had eaten , the mother said , `` Elsie , go into the cellar and fetch some beer"
Then Clever Elsie took the pitcher from the wall , went into the cellar , and tapped the lid briskly as she went , so that the time might not appear long.
When she was below she fetched herself a chair , and set it before the barrel so that she had no need to stoop , and did not hurt her back or do herself any unexpected injury.
Then she placed the can before her , and turned the tap , and while the beer was running she would not let her eyes be idle , but looked up at the wall , and after much peering here and there , saw a pick-axe exactly above her , which the masons had accidentally left there.
Then Clever Elsie began to weep , and said , `` If I get Hans , and we have a child , and he grows big , and we send him into the cellar here to draw beer , then the pick-axe will fall on his head and kill him"
Then she sat and wept and screamed with all the strength of her body , over the misfortune which lay before her.
Those upstairs waited for the drink , but Clever Elsie still did not come.
Then the woman said to the servant , `` Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie is"
The maid went and found her sitting in front of the barrel , screaming loudly.
`` Elsie , why weepest thou ?"
asked the maid.
`` Ah ,"
she answered , `` have I not reason to weep ? If I get Hans , and we have a child , and he grows big , and has to draw beer here , the pick-axe will perhaps fall on his head , and kill him"
Then said the maid , `` What a clever Elsie we have !"
and sat down beside her and began loudly to weep over the misfortune.
After a while , as the maid did not come back , those upstairs were thirsty for the beer , the man said to the boy , `` Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie and the girl are"
The boy went down , and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both weeping together.
Then he asked , `` Why are ye weeping ?"
`` Ah ,"
said Elsie , `` have I not reason to weep ? If I get Hans , and we have a child , and he grows big , and has to draw beer here , the pick-axe will fall on his head and kill him"
Then said the boy , `` What a clever Elsie we have !"
and sat down by her , and likewise began to howl loudly.
Upstairs they waited for the boy , but as he still did not return , the man said to the woman , `` Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie is !"
The woman went down , and found all three in the midst of their lamentations , and inquired what was the cause ; then Elsie told her also that her future child was to be killed by the pick-axe , when it grew big and had to draw beer , and the pick-axe fell down.
Then said the mother likewise , `` What a clever Elsie we have !"
and sat down and wept with them.
The man upstairs waited a short time , but as his wife did not come back and his thirst grew ever greater , he said , `` I must go into the cellar myself and see where Elsie is"
But when he got into the cellar , and they were all sitting together crying , and he heard the reason , and that Elsie 's child was the cause , and that Elsie might perhaps bring one into the world some day , and that it might be killed by the pick-axe , if it should happen to be sitting beneath it , drawing beer just at the very time when it fell down , he cried , `` Oh , what a clever Elsie !"
and sat down , and likewise wept with them.
The bridegroom stayed upstairs alone for a long time ; then as no one would come back he thought , `` They must be waiting for me below ; I too must go there and see what they are about"
When he got down , five of them were sitting screaming and lamenting quite piteously , each out-doing the other.
`` What misfortune has happened then ?"
he asked.
`` Ah , dear Hans ,"
said Elsie , `` if we marry each other and have a child , and he is big , and we perhaps send him here to draw something to drink , then the pick-axe which has been left up there might dash his brains out if it were to fall down , so have we not reason to weep ?"
`` Come ,"
said Hans , `` more understanding than that is not needed for my household , as thou art such a clever Elsie , I will have thee ,"
and he seized her hand , took her upstairs with him , and married her.
After Hans had had her some time , he said , `` Wife , I am going out to work and earn some money for us ; go into the field and cut the corn that we may have some bread"
`` Yes , dear Hans , I will do that"
After Hans had gone away , she cooked herself some good broth and took it into the field with her.
When she came to the field she said to herself , `` What shall I do ; shall I shear first , or shall I eat first ? Oh , I will eat first"
Then she emptied her basin of broth , and when she was fully satisfied , she once more said , `` What shall I do ? Shall I shear first , or shall I sleep first ? I will sleep first"
Then she lay down among the corn and fell asleep.
Hans had been at home for a long time , but Elsie did not come ; then said he , `` What a clever Elsie I have ; she is so industrious that she does not even come home to eat"
As , however , she still stayed away , and it was evening , Hans went out to see what she had cut , but nothing was cut , and she was lying among the corn asleep.
Then Hans hastened home and brought a fowler 's net with little bells and hung it round about her , and she still went on sleeping.
Then he ran home , shut the house-door , and sat down in his chair and worked.
At length , when it was quite dark , Clever Elsie awoke and when she got up there was a jingling all round about her , and the bells rang at each step which she took.
Then she was alarmed , and became uncertain whether she really was Clever Elsie or not , and said , `` Is it I , or is it not I ?"
But she knew not what answer to make to this , and stood for a time in doubt ; at length she thought , `` I will go home and ask if it be I , or if it be not I , they will be sure to know"
She ran to the door of her own house , but it was shut ; then she knocked at the window and cried , `` Hans , is Elsie within ?"
`` Yes ,"
answered Hans , `` she is within"
Hereupon she was terrified , and said , `` Ah , heavens ! Then it is not I ,"
and went to another door ; but when the people heard the jingling of the bells they would not open it , and she could get in nowhere.
Then she ran out of the village , and no one has seen her since"
There was once a King 's son who was betrothed to a maiden whom he loved very much.
And when he was sitting beside her and very happy , news came that his father lay sick unto death , and desired to see him once again before his end.
Then he said to his beloved , `` I must now go and leave thee , I give thee a ring as a remembrance of me.
When I am King , I will return and fetch thee"
So he rode away , and when he reached his father , the latter was dangerously ill , and near his death.
He said to him , `` Dear son , I wished to see thee once again before my end , promise me to marry as I wish ,"
and he named a certain King 's daughter who was to be his wife.
The son was in such trouble that he did not think what he was doing , and said , `` Yes , dear father , your will shall be done ,"
and thereupon the King shut his eyes , and died.
When therefore the son had been proclaimed King , and the time of mourning was over , he was forced to keep the promise which he had given his father , and caused the King 's daughter to be asked in marriage , and she was promised to him.
His first betrothed heard of this , and fretted so much about his faithlessness that she nearly died.
Then her father said to her , `` Dearest child , why art thou so sad ? Thou shalt have whatsoever thou wilt"
She thought for a moment and said , `` Dear father , I wish for eleven girls exactly like myself in face , figure , and size"
The father said , `` If it be possible , thy desire shall be fulfilled ,"
and he caused a search to be made in his whole kingdom , until eleven young maidens were found who exactly resembled his daughter in face , figure , and size.
When they came to the King 's daughter , she had twelve suits of huntsmen 's clothes made , all alike , and the eleven maidens had to put on the huntsmen 's clothes , and she herself put on the twelfth suit.
Thereupon she took leave of her father , and rode away with them , and rode to the court of her former betrothed , whom she loved so dearly.
Then she inquired if he required any huntsmen , and if he would take the whole of them into his service.
The King looked at her and did not know her , but as they were such handsome fellows , he said , `` Yes ,"
and that he would willingly take them , and now they were the King 's twelve huntsmen.
The King , however , had a lion which was a wondrous animal , for he knew all concealed and secret things.
It came to pass that one evening he said to the King , `` Thou thinkest thou hast twelve huntsmen ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the King , `` they are twelve huntsmen"
The lion continued , `` Thou art mistaken , they are twelve girls"
The King said , `` That can not be true ! How wilt thou prove that to me ?"
`` Oh , just let some peas be strewn in thy ante-chamber ,"
answered the lion , `` and then thou wilt soon see it.
Men have a firm step , and when they walk over the peas none of them stir , but girls trip and skip , and drag their feet , and the peas roll about"
The King was well pleased with the counsel , and caused the peas to be strewn.
There was , however , a servant of the King 's who favored the huntsmen , and when he heard that they were going to be put to this test he went to them and repeated everything , and said , `` The lion wants to make the King believe that you are girls"
Then the King 's daughter thanked him , and said to her maidens , `` Put on some strength , and step firmly on the peas"
So next morning when the King had the twelve huntsmen called before him , and they came into the ante-chamber where the peas were lying , they stepped so firmly on them , and had such a strong , sure walk , that not one of the peas either rolled or stirred.
Then they went away again , and the King said to the lion , `` Thou hast lied to me , they walk just like men"
The lion said , `` They have got to know that they were going to be put to the test , and have assumed some strength.
Just let twelve spinning-wheels be brought into the ante-chamber some day , and they will go to them and be pleased with them , and that is what no man would do"
The King liked the advice , and had the spinning-wheels placed in the ante-chamber.
But the servant , who was well disposed to the huntsmen , went to them , and disclosed the project.
Then when they were alone the King 's daughter said to her eleven girls , `` Put some constraint on yourselves , and do not look round at the spinning-wheels"
And next morning when the King had his twelve huntsmen summoned , they went through the ante-chamber , and never once looked at the spinning wheels.
Then the King again said to the lion , `` Thou hast deceived me , they are men , for they have not looked at the spinning-wheels"
The lion replied , `` They have learned that they were going to be put to the test , and have restrained themselves"
The King , however , would no longer believe the lion.
The twelve huntsmen always followed the King to the chase , and his liking for them continually increased.
Now it came to pass that once when they were out hunting , news came that the King 's betrothed was approaching.
When the true bride heard that , it hurt her so much that her heart was almost broken , and she fell fainting to the ground.
The King thought something had happened to his dear huntsman , ran up to him , wanted to help him , and drew his glove off.
Then he saw the ring which he had given to his first bride , and when he looked in her face he recognized her.
Then his heart was so touched that he kissed her , and when she opened her eyes he said , `` Thou art mine , and I am thine , and no one in the world can alter that"
He sent a messenger to the other bride , and entreated her to return to her own kingdom , for he had a wife already , and a man who had just found an old dish did not require a new one.
Thereupon the wedding was celebrated , and the lion was again taken into favor , because , after all , he had told the truth"
There was once upon a time a person_0 , but where he reigned and what he was called , I do not know.
He had no son , but an only daughter who had always been ill , and no doctor had been able to cure her.
Then it was foretold to the person_0 that his daughter should eat herself well with an apple.
So he ordered it to be proclaimed throughout the whole of his kingdom , that whosoever brought his daughter an apple with which she could eat herself well , should have her to wife , and be person_0.
This became known to a peasant who had three sons , and he said to the eldest , `` Go out into the garden and take a basketful of those beautiful apples with the red cheeks and carry them to the court ; perhaps the person_0 's daughter will be able to eat herself well with them , and then thou wilt marry her and be person_0"
The lad did so , and set out.
When he had gone a short way he met a little iron man who asked him what he had there in the basket , to which replied Uele , for so was he named , `` Frogs ' legs"
On this the little man said , `` Well , so shall it be , and remain ,"
and went away.
At length Uele arrived at the palace , and made it known that he had brought apples which would cure the person_0 's daughter if she ate them.
This delighted the person_0 hugely , and he caused Uele to be brought before him ; but , alas ! when he opened the basket , instead of having apples in it he had frogs ' legs which were still kicking about.
On this the person_0 grew angry , and had him driven out of the house.
When he got home he told his father how it had fared with him.
Then the father sent the next son , who was called Seame , but all went with him just as it had gone with Uele.
He also met the little iron man , who asked what he had there in the basket.
Seame said , `` Hogs ' bristles ,"
and the iron man said , `` well , so shall it be , and remain"
When Seame got to the person_0 's palace and said he brought apples with which the person_0 's daughter might eat herself well , they did not want to let him go in , and said that one fellow had already been there , and had treated them as if they were fools.
Seame , however , maintained that he certainly had the apples , and that they ought to let him go in.
At length they believed him , and led him to the person_0.
But when he uncovered the basket , he had but hogs ' bristles.
This enraged the person_0 most terribly , so he caused Seame to be whipped out of the house.
When he got home he related all that had befallen him , then the youngest boy , whose name was Hans , but who was always called Stupid Hans , came and asked his father if he might go with some apples.
`` Oh !"
said the father , `` thou wouldst be just the right fellow for such a thing ! If the clever ones ca n't manage it , what canst thou do ?"
The boy , however , did not believe him , and said , `` Indeed , father , I wish to go"
`` Just get away , thou stupid fellow , thou must wait till thou art wiser ,"
said the father to that , and turned his back.
Hans , however , pulled at the back of his smock-frock and said , `` Indeed , father , I wish to go"
`` Well , then , so far as I am concerned thou mayst go , but thou wilt soon come home again !"
replied the old man in a spiteful voice.
The boy , however , was tremendously delighted and jumped for joy.
`` Well , act like a fool ! thou growest more stupid every day !"
said the father again.
Hans , however , did not care about that , and did not let it spoil his pleasure , but as it was then night , he thought he might as well wait until the morrow , for he could not get to court that day.
All night long he could not sleep in his bed , and if he did doze for a moment , he dreamt of beautiful maidens , of palaces , of gold , and of silver , and all kinds of things of that sort.
Early in the morning , he went forth on his way , and directly afterwards the little shabby-looking man in his iron clothes , came to him and asked what he was carrying in the basket.
Hans gave him the answer that he was carrying apples with which the person_0 's daughter was to eat herself well.
`` Then ,"
said the little man , `` so shall they be , and remain"
But at the court they would none of them let Hans go in , for they said two had already been there who had told them that they were bringing apples , and one of them had frogs ' legs , and the other hogs ' bristles.
Hans , however , resolutely maintained that he most certainly had no frogs ' legs , but some of the most beautiful apples in the whole kingdom.
As he spoke so pleasantly , the door-keeper thought he could not be telling a lie , and asked him to go in , and he was right , for when Hans uncovered his basket in the person_0 's presence , golden-yellow apples came tumbling out.
The person_0 was delighted , and caused some of them to be taken to his daughter , and then waited in anxious expectation until news should be brought to him of the effect they had.
But before much time had passed by , news was brought to him : but who do you think it was who came ? it was his daughter herself ! As soon as she had eaten of those apples , she was cured , and sprang out of her bed.
The joy the person_0 felt can not be described ! but now he did not want to give his daughter in marriage to Hans , and said he must first make him a boat which would go quicker on dry land than on water.
Hans agreed to the conditions , and went home , and related how it had fared with him.
Then the father sent Uele into the forest to make a boat of that kind.
He worked diligently , and whistled all the time.
At mid-day , when the sun was at the highest , came the little iron man and asked what he was making ? Uele gave him for answer , `` Wooden bowls for the kitchen"
The iron man said , `` So it shall be , and remain"
By evening Uele thought he had now made the boat , but when he wanted to get into it , he had nothing but wooden bowls.
The next day Seame went into the forest , but everything went with him just as it had done with Uele.
On the third day Stupid Hans went.
He worked away most industriously , so that the whole forest resounded with the heavy strokes , and all the while he sang and whistled right merrily.
At mid-day , when it was the hottest , the little man came again , and asked what he was making ? `` A boat which will go quicker on dry land than on the water ,"
replied Hans , `` and when I have finished it , I am to have the person_0 's daughter for my wife"
`` Well ,"
said the little man , `` such an one shall it be , and remain"
In the evening , when the sun had turned into gold , Hans finished his boat , and all that was wanted for it.
He got into it and rowed to the palace.
The boat went as swiftly as the wind.
The person_0 saw it from afar , but would not give his daughter to Hans yet , and said he must first take a hundred hares out to pasture from early morning until late evening , and if one of them got away , he should not have his daughter.
Hans was contented with this , and the next day went with his flock to the pasture , and took great care that none of them ran away.
Before many hours had passed came a servant from the palace , and told Hans that he must give her a hare instantly , for some visitors had come unexpectedly.
Hans , however , was very well aware what that meant , and said he would not give her one ; the person_0 might set some hare soup before his guest next day.
The maid , however , would not believe in his refusal , and at last she began to get angry with him.
Then Hans said that if the person_0 's daughter came herself , he would give her a hare.
The maid told this in the palace , and the daughter did go herself.
In the meantime , however , the little man came again to Hans , and asked him what he was doing there ? He said he had to watch over a hundred hares and see that none of them ran away , and then he might marry the person_0 's daughter and be person_0.
`` Good ,"
said the little man , `` there is a whistle for thee , and if one of them runs away , just whistle with it , and then it will come back again"
When the person_0 's daughter came , Hans gave her a hare into her apron ; but when she had gone about a hundred steps with it , he whistled , and the hare jumped out of the apron , and before she could turn round was back to the flock again.
When the evening came the hare-herd whistled once more , and looked to see if all were there , and then drove them to the palace.
The person_0 wondered how Hans had been able to take a hundred hares to graze without losing any of them ; he would , however , not give him his daughter yet , and said he must now bring him a feather from the Griffin 's tail.
Hans set out at once , and walked straight forwards.
In the evening he came to a castle , and there he asked for a night 's lodging , for at that time there were no inns.
The lord of the castle promised him that with much pleasure , and asked where he was going ? Hans answered , `` To the Griffin"
`` Oh ! to the Griffin ! They tell me he knows everything , and I have lost the key of an iron money-chest ; so you might be so good as to ask him where it is"
`` Yes , indeed ,"
said Hans , `` I will do that"
Early the next morning he went onwards , and on his way arrived at another castle in which he again stayed the night.
When the people who lived there learned that he was going to the Griffin , they said they had in the house a daughter who was ill , and that they had already tried every means to cure her , but none of them had done her any good , and he might be so kind as to ask the Griffin what would make their daughter healthy again ? Hans said he would willingly do that , and went onwards.
Then he came to a lake , and instead of a ferry-boat , a tall , tall man was there who had to carry everybody across.
The man asked Hans whither he was journeying ? `` To the Griffin ,"
said Hans.
`` Then when you get to him ,"
said the man , `` just ask him why I am forced to carry everybody over the lake"
`` Yes , indeed , most certainly I 'll do that ,"
said Hans.
Then the man took him up on his shoulders , and carried him across.
At length Hans arrived at the Griffin 's house , but the wife only was at home , and not the Griffin himself.
Then the woman asked him what he wanted ? Thereupon he told her everything ; -- that he had to get a feather out of the Griffin 's tail , and that there was a castle where they had lost the key of their money-chest , and he was to ask the Griffin where it was ? -- that in another castle the daughter was ill , and he was to learn what would cure her ? -- and then not far from thence there was a lake and a man beside it , who was forced to carry people across it , and he was very anxious to learn why the man was obliged to do it.
Then said the woman , `` But look here , my good friend , no Christian can speak to the Griffin ; he devours them all ; but if you like , you can lie down under his bed , and in the night , when he is quite fast asleep , you can reach out and pull a feather out of his tail , and as for those things which you are to learn , I will ask about them myself"
Hans was quite satisfied with this , and got under the bed.
In the evening , the Griffin came home , and as soon as he entered the room , said , `` Wife , I smell a Christian"
`` Yes ,"
said the woman , `` one was here to-day , but he went away again ;"
and on that the Griffin said no more.
In the middle of the night when the Griffin was snoring loudly , Hans reached out and plucked a feather from his tail.
The Griffin woke up instantly , and said , `` Wife , I smell a Christian , and it seems to me that somebody was pulling at my tail"
His wife said , `` Thou hast certainly been dreaming , and I told thee before that a Christian was here to-day , but that he went away again.
He told me all kinds of things that in one castle they had lost the key of their money-chest , and could find it nowhere"
`` Oh ! the fools !"
said the Griffin ; `` the key lies in the wood - house under a log of wood behind the door"
`` And then he said that in another castle the daughter was ill , and they knew no remedy that would cure her"
`` Oh ! the fools !"
said the Griffin ; `` under the cellar-steps a toad has made its nest of her hair , and if she got her hair back she would be well"
`` And then he also said that there was a place where there was a lake and a man beside it who was forced to carry everybody across"
`` Oh , the fool !"
said the Griffin ; `` if he only put one man down in the middle , he would never have to carry another across"
Early the next morning the Griffin got up and went out.
Then Hans came forth from under the bed , and he had a beautiful feather , and had heard what the Griffin had said about the key , and the daughter , and the ferry-man.
The Griffin 's wife repeated it all once more to him that he might not forget it , and then he went home again.
First he came to the man by the lake , who asked him what the Griffin had said , but Hans replied that he must first carry him across , and then he would tell him.
So the man carried him across , and when he was over Hans told him that all he had to do was to set one person down in the middle of the lake , and then he would never have to carry over any more.
The man was hugely delighted , and told Hans that out of gratitude he would take him once more across , and back again.
But Hans said no , he would save him the trouble , he was quite satisfied already , and pursued his way.
Then he came to the castle where the daughter was ill ; he took her on his shoulders , for she could not walk , and carried her down the cellar-steps and pulled out the toad 's nest from beneath the lowest step and gave it into her hand , and she sprang off his shoulder and up the steps before him , and was quite cured.
Then were the father and mother beyond measure rejoiced , and they gave Hans gifts of gold and of silver , and whatsoever else he wished for , that they gave him.
And when he got to the other castle he went at once into the wood-house , and found the key under the log of wood behind the door , and took it to the lord of the castle.
He also was not a little pleased , and gave Hans as a reward much of the gold that was in the chest , and all kinds of things besides , such as cows , and sheep , and goats.
When Hans arrived before the person_0 , with all these things -- with the money , and the gold , and the silver and the cows , sheep and goats , the person_0 asked him how he had come by them.
Then Hans told him that the Griffin gave every one whatsoever he wanted.
So the person_0 thought he himself could make such things useful , and set out on his way to the Griffin ; but when he got to the lake , it happened that he was the very first who arrived there after Hans , and the man put him down in the middle of it and went away , and the person_0 was drowned.
Hans , however , married the daughter , and became person_0"
A poor wood-cutter lived with his wife and three daughters in a little hut on the edge of a lonely forest.
One morning as he was about to go to his work , he said to his wife , `` Let my dinner be brought into the forest to me by my eldest daughter , or I shall never get my work done , and in order that she may not miss her way ,"
he added , `` I will take a bag of millet with me and strew the seeds on the path"
When , therefore , the sun was just above the center of the forest , the girl set out on her way with a bowl of soup , but the field-sparrows , and wood-sparrows , larks and finches , blackbirds and siskins had picked up the millet long before , and the girl could not find the track.
Then trusting to chance , she went on and on , until the sun sank and night began to fall.
The trees rustled in the darkness , the owls hooted , and she began to be afraid.
Then in the distance she perceived a light which glimmered between the trees.
`` There ought to be some people living there , who can take me in for the night ,"
thought she , and went up to the light.
It was not long before she came to a house the windows of which were all lighted up.
She knocked , and a rough voice from inside cried , `` Come in"
The girl stepped into the dark entrance , and knocked at the door of the room.
`` Just come in ,"
cried the voice , and when she opened the door , an old gray-haired man was sitting at the table , supporting his face with both hands , and his white beard fell down over the table almost as far as the ground.
By the stove lay three animals , a hen , a cock , and a brindled cow.
The girl told her story to the old man , and begged for shelter for the night.
The man said , `` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , And pretty brindled cow , What say ye to that ?"
`` Duks ,"
answered the animals , and that must have meant , `` We are willing ,"
for the old man said , `` Here you shall have shelter and food , go to the fire , and cook us our supper"
The girl found in the kitchen abundance of everything , and cooked a good supper , but had no thought of the animals.
She carried the full dishes to the table , seated herself by the gray-haired man , ate and satisfied her hunger.
When she had had enough , she said , `` But now I am tired , where is there a bed in which I can lie down , and sleep ?"
The animals replied , `` Thou hast eaten with him , Thou hast drunk with him , Thou hast had no thought for us , So find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night"
Then said the old man , `` Just go upstairs , and thou wilt find a room with two beds , shake them up , and put white linen on them , and then I , too , will come and lie down to sleep"
The girl went up , and when she had shaken the beds and put clean sheets on , she lay down in one of them without waiting any longer for the old man.
After some time , however , the gray-haired man came , took his candle , looked at the girl and shook his head.
When he saw that she had fallen into a sound sleep , he opened a trap-door , and let her down into the cellar.
Late at night the wood-cutter came home , and reproached his wife for leaving him to hunger all day.
`` It is not my fault ,"
she replied , `` the girl went out with your dinner , and must have lost herself , but she is sure to come back to-morrow"
The wood-cutter , however , arose before dawn to go into the forest , and requested that the second daughter should take him his dinner that day.
`` I will take a bag with lentils ,"
said he ; `` the seeds are larger than millet , the girl will see them better , and ca n't lose her way"
At dinner-time , therefore , the girl took out the food , but the lentils had disappeared.
The birds of the forest had picked them up as they had done the day before , and had left none.
The girl wandered about in the forest until night , and then she too reached the house of the old man , was told to go in , and begged for food and a bed.
The man with the white beard again asked the animals , `` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , And pretty brindled cow , What say ye to that ?"
The animals again replied `` Duks ,"
and everything happened just as it had happened the day before.
The girl cooked a good meal , ate and drank with the old man , and did not concern herself about the animals , and when she inquired about her bed they answered , `` Thou hast eaten with him , Thou hast drunk with him , Thou hast had no thought for us , To find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night"
When she was asleep the old man came , looked at her , shook his head , and let her down into the cellar.
On the third morning the wood-cutter said to his wife , `` Send our youngest child out with my dinner to-day , she has always been good and obedient , and will stay in the right path , and not run about after every wild humble-bee , as her sisters did"
The mother did not want to do it , and said , `` Am I to lose my dearest child , as well ?"
`` Have no fear ,"
he replied , `` the girl will not go astray ; she is too prudent and sensible ; besides I will take some peas with me , and strew them about.
They are still larger than lentils , and will show her the way"
But when the girl went out with her basket on her arm , the wood-pigeons had already got all the peas in their crops , and she did not know which way she was to turn.
She was full of sorrow and never ceased to think how hungry her father would be , and how her good mother would grieve , if she did not go home.
At length when it grew dark , she saw the light and came to the house in the forest.
She begged quite prettily to be allowed to spend the night there , and the man with the white beard once more asked his animals , `` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , And beautiful brindled cow , What say ye to that ?"
`` Duks ,"
said they.
Then the girl went to the stove where the animals were lying , and petted the cock and hen , and stroked their smooth feathers with her hand , and caressed the brindled cow between her horns , and when , in obedience to the old man 's orders , she had made ready some good soup , and the bowl was placed upon the table , she said , `` Am I to eat as much as I want , and the good animals to have nothing ? Outside is food in plenty , I will look after them first"
So she went and brought some barley and stewed it for the cock and hen , and a whole armful of sweet-smelling hay for the cow.
`` I hope you will like it , dear animals ,"
said she , `` and you shall have a refreshing draught in case you are thirsty"
Then she fetched in a bucketful of water , and the cock and hen jumped on to the edge of it and dipped their beaks in , and then held up their heads as the birds do when they drink , and the brindled cow also took a hearty draught.
When the animals were fed , the girl seated herself at the table by the old man , and ate what he had left.
It was not long before the cock and the hen began to thrust their heads beneath their wings , and the eyes of the cow likewise began to blink.
Then said the girl , `` Ought we not to go to bed ?"
`` Pretty little hen , Pretty little cock , And pretty brindled cow , What say ye to that ?"
The animals answered `` Duks ,"
`` Thou hast eaten with us , Thou hast drunk with us , Thou hast had kind thought for all of us , We wish thee good-night"
Then the maiden went upstairs , shook the feather-beds , and laid clean sheets on them , and when she had done it the old man came and lay down on one of the beds , and his white beard reached down to his feet.
The girl lay down on the other , said her prayers , and fell asleep.
She slept quietly till midnight , and then there was such a noise in the house that she awoke.
There was a sound of cracking and splitting in every corner , and the doors sprang open , and beat against the walls.
The beams groaned as if they were being torn out of their joints , it seemed as if the staircase were falling down , and at length there was a crash as if the entire roof had fallen in.
As , however , all grew quiet once more , and the girl was not hurt , she stayed quietly lying where she was , and fell asleep again.
But when she woke up in the morning with the brilliancy of the sunshine , what did her eyes behold ? She was lying in a vast hall , and everything around her shone with royal splendor ; on the walls , golden flowers grew up on a ground of green silk , the bed was of ivory , and the canopy of red velvet , and on a chair close by , was a pair of shoes embroidered with pearls.
The girl believed that she was in a dream , but three richly clad attendants came in , and asked what orders she would like to give ? `` If you will go ,"
she replied , `` I will get up at once and make ready some soup for the old man , and then I will feed the pretty little hen , and the cock , and the beautiful brindled cow"
She thought the old man was up already , and looked round at his bed ; he , however , was not lying in it , but a stranger.
And while she was looking at him , and becoming aware that he was young and handsome , he awoke , sat up in bed , and said , `` I am a King 's son , and was bewitched by a wicked witch , and made to live in this forest , as an old gray-haired man ; no one was allowed to be with me but my three attendants in the form of a cock , a hen , and a brindled cow.
The spell was not to be broken until a girl came to us whose heart was so good that she showed herself full of love , not only towards mankind , but towards animals -- and that thou hast done , and by thee at midnight we were set free , and the old hut in the forest was changed back again into my royal palace"
And when they had arisen , the King 's son ordered the three attendants to set out and fetch the father and mother of the girl to the marriage feast.
`` But where are my two sisters ?"
inquired the maiden.
`` I have locked them in the cellar , and to-morrow they shall be led into the forest , and shall live as servants to a charcoal-burner , until they have grown kinder , and do not leave poor animals to suffer hunger"
THERE was once upon a time an old Queen whose husband had been dead for many years , and she had a beautiful daughter.
When the princess grew up she was betrothed to a prince who lived at a great distance.
When the time came for her to be married , and she had to journey forth into the distant kingdom , the aged Queen packed up for her many costly vessels of silver and gold , and trinkets also of gold and silver ; and cups and jewels , in short , everything which appertained to a royal dowry , for she loved her child with all her heart.
She likewise sent her maid in waiting , who was to ride with her , and hand her over to the bridegroom , and each had a horse for the journey , but the horse of the King 's daughter was called Falada , and could speak.
So when the hour of parting had come , the aged mother went into her bedroom , took a small knife and cut her finger with it until it bled , then she held a white handkerchief to it into which she let three drops of blood fall , gave it to her daughter and said , `` Dear child , preserve this carefully , it will be of service to you on your way"
So they took a sorrowful leave of each other ; the princess put the piece of cloth in her bosom , mounted her horse , and then went away to her bridegroom.
After she had ridden for a while she felt a burning thirst , and said to her waiting-maid , `` Dismount , and take my cup which thou hast brought with thee for me , and get me some water from the stream , for I should like to drink"
`` If you are thirsty ,"
said the waiting-maid , `` get off your horse yourself , and lie down and drink out of the water , I do n't choose to be your servant"
So in her great thirst the princess alighted , bent down over the water in the stream and drank , and was not allowed to drink out of the golden cup.
Then she said , `` Ah , Heaven !"
and the three drops of blood answered , `` If thy mother knew , her heart would break"
But the King 's daughter was humble , said nothing , and mounted her horse again.
She rode some miles further , but the day was warm , the sun scorched her , and she was thirsty once more , and when they came to a stream of water , she again cried to her waiting-maid , `` Dismount , and give me some water in my golden cup ,"
for she had long ago forgotten the girl 's ill words.
But the waiting-maid said still more haughtily , `` If you wish to drink , drink as you can , I do n't choose to be your maid"
Then in her great thirst the King 's daughter alighted , bent over the flowing stream , wept and said , `` Ah , Heaven !"
and the drops of blood again replied , `` If thy mother knew this , her heart would break"
And as she was thus drinking and leaning right over the stream , the handkerchief with the three drops of blood fell out of her bosom , and floated away with the water without her observing it , so great was her trouble.
The waiting-maid , however , had seen it , and she rejoiced to think that she had now power over the bride , for since the princess had lost the drops of blood , she had become weak and powerless.
So now when she wanted to mount her horse again , the one that was called Falada , the waiting-maid said , `` Falada is more suitable for me , and my nag will do for thee"
and the princess had to be content with that.
Then the waiting-maid , with many hard words , bade the princess exchange her royal apparel for her own shabby clothes ; and at length she was compelled to swear by the clear sky above her , that she would not say one word of this to any one at the royal court , and if she had not taken this oath she would have been killed on the spot.
But Falada saw all this , and observed it well.
The waiting-maid now mounted Falada , and the true bride the bad horse , and thus they traveled onwards , until at length they entered the royal palace.
There were great rejoicings over her arrival , and the prince sprang forward to meet her , lifted the waiting-maid from her horse , and thought she was his consort.
She was conducted upstairs , but the real princess was left standing below.
Then the old King looked out of the window and saw her standing in the courtyard , and how dainty and delicate and beautiful she was , and instantly went to the royal apartment , and asked the bride about the girl she had with her who was standing down below in the courtyard , and who she was ? `` I picked her up on my way for a companion ; give the girl something to work at , that she may not stand idle"
But the old King had no work for her , and knew of none , so he said , `` I have a little boy who tends the geese , she may help him"
The boy was called Conrad , and the true bride had to help him to tend the geese.
Soon afterwards the false bride said to the young King , `` Dearest husband , I beg you to do me a favor"
He answered , `` I will do so most willingly"
`` Then send for the knacker , and have the head of the horse on which I rode here cut off , for it vexed me on the way"
In reality , she was afraid that the horse might tell how she had behaved to the King 's daughter.
Then she succeeded in making the King promise that it should be done , and the faithful Falada was to die ; this came to the ears of the real princess , and she secretly promised to pay the knacker a piece of gold if he would perform a small service for her.
There was a great dark-looking gateway in the town , through which morning and evening she had to pass with the geese : would he be so good as to nail up Falada 's head on it , so that she might see him again , more than once.
The knacker 's man promised to do that , and cut off the head , and nailed it fast beneath the dark gateway.
Early in the morning , when she and Conrad drove out their flock beneath this gateway , she said in passing , `` Alas , Falada , hanging there !"
Then the head answered , `` Alas , young Queen , how ill you fare ! If this your tender mother knew , Her heart would surely break in two"
Then they went still further out of the town , and drove their geese into the country.
And when they had come to the meadow , she sat down and unbound her hair which was like pure gold , and Conrad saw it and delighted in its brightness , and wanted to pluck out a few hairs.
Then she said , `` Blow , blow , thou gentle wind , I say , Blow Conrad 's little hat away , And make him chase it here and there , Until I have braided all my hair , And bound it up again"
And there came such a violent wind that it blew Conrad 's hat far away across country , and he was forced to run after it.
When he came back she had finished combing her hair and was putting it up again , and he could not get any of it.
Then Conrad was angry , and would not speak to her , and thus they watched the geese until the evening , and then they went home.
Next day when they were driving the geese out through the dark gateway , the maiden said , `` Alas , Falada , hanging there !"
Falada answered , `` Alas , young Queen , how ill you fare ! If this your tender mother knew , Her heart would surely break in two"
And she sat down again in the field and began to comb out her hair , and Conrad ran and tried to clutch it , so she said in haste , `` Blow , blow , thou gentle wind , I say , Blow Conrad 's little hat away , And make him chase it here and there , Until I have braided all my hair , And bound it up again"
Then the wind blew , and blew his little hat off his head and far away , and Conrad was forced to run after it , and when he came back , her hair had been put up a long time , and he could get none of it , and so they looked after their geese till evening came.
But in the evening after they had got home , Conrad went to the old King , and said , `` I wo n't tend the geese with that girl any longer !"
`` Why not ?"
inquired the aged King.
`` Oh , because she vexes me the whole day long"
Then the aged King commanded him to relate what it was that she did to him.
And Conrad said , `` In the morning when we pass beneath the dark gateway with the flock , there is a sorry horse 's head on the wall , and she says to it , `` Alas , Falada , hanging there !"
And the head replies , `` Alas , young Queen how ill you fare ! If this your tender mother knew , Her heart would surely break in two"
And Conrad went on to relate what happened on the goose pasture , and how when there he had to chase his hat.
The aged King commanded him to drive his flock out again next day , and as soon as morning came , he placed himself behind the dark gateway , and heard how the maiden spoke to the head of Falada , and then he too went into the country , and hid himself in the thicket in the meadow.
There he soon saw with his own eyes the goose-girl and the goose-boy bringing their flock , and how after a while she sat down and unplaited her hair , which shone with radiance.
And soon she said , `` Blow , blow , thou gentle wind , I say , Blow Conrad 's little hat away , And make him chase it here and there , Until I have braided all my hair , And bound it up again"
Then came a blast of wind and carried off Conrad 's hat , so that he had to run far away , while the maiden quietly went on combing and plaiting her hair , all of which the King observed.
Then , quite unseen , he went away , and when the goose-girl came home in the evening , he called her aside , and asked why she did all these things.
`` I may not tell you that , and I dare not lament my sorrows to any human being , for I have sworn not to do so by the heaven which is above me ; if I had not done that , I should have lost my life"
He urged her and left her no peace , but he could draw nothing from her.
Then said he , `` If thou wilt not tell me anything , tell thy sorrows to the iron-stove there ,"
and he went away.
Then she crept into the iron-stove , and began to weep and lament , and emptied her whole heart , and said , `` Here am I deserted by the whole world , and yet I am a King 's daughter , and a false waiting-maid has by force brought me to such a pass that I have been compelled to put off my royal apparel , and she has taken my place with my bridegroom , and I have to perform menial service as a goose-girl.
If my mother did but know that , her heart would break"
The aged King , however , was standing outside by the pipe of the stove , and was listening to what she said , and heard it.
Then he came back again , and bade her come out of the stove.
And royal garments were placed on her , and it was marvellous how beautiful she was ! The aged King summoned his son , and revealed to him that he had got the false bride who was only a waiting-maid , but that the true one was standing there , as the sometime goose-girl.
The young King rejoiced with all his heart when he saw her beauty and youth , and a great feast was made ready to which all the people and all good friends were invited.
At the head of the table sat the bridegroom with the King 's daughter at one side of him , and the waiting-maid on the other , but the waiting-maid was blinded , and did not recognize the princess in her dazzling array.
When they had eaten and drunk , and were merry , the aged King asked the waiting-maid as a riddle , what a person deserved who had behaved in such and such a way to her master , and at the same time related the whole story , and asked what sentence such an one merited ? Then the false bride said , `` She deserves no better fate than to be stripped entirely naked , and put in a barrel which is studded inside with pointed nails , and two white horses should be harnessed to it , which will drag her along through one street after another , till she is dead"
`` It is thou ,"
said the aged King , `` and thou hast pronounced thine own sentence , and thus shall it be done unto thee"
And when the sentence had been carried out , the young King married his true bride , and both of them reigned over their kingdom in peace and happiness"
THERE was once a woman who had three daughters , the eldest of whom was called One-eye , because she had only one eye in the middle of her forehead , and the second , person_0-eyes , because she had two eyes like other folks , and the youngest , Three-eyes , because she had three eyes ; and her third eye was also in the center of her forehead.
However , as person_0-eyes saw just as other human beings did , her sisters and her mother could not endure her.
They said to her , `` Thou , with thy two eyes , art no better than the common people ; thou dost not belong to us !"
They pushed her about , and threw old clothes to her , and gave her nothing to eat but what they left , and did everything that they could to make her unhappy.
It came to pass that person_0-eyes had to go out into the fields and tend the goat , but she was still quite hungry , because her sisters had given her so little to eat.
So she sat down on a ridge and began to weep , and so bitterly that two streams ran down from her eyes.
And once when she looked up in her grief , a woman was standing beside her , who said , `` Why art thou weeping , little person_0-eyes ?"
person_0-Eyes answered , `` Have I not reason to weep , when I have two eyes like other people , and my sisters and mother hate me for it , and push me from one corner to another , throw old clothes at me , and give me nothing to eat but the scraps they leave ? To-day they have given me so little that I am still quite hungry"
Then the wise woman said , `` Wipe away thy tears , person_0-eyes , and I will tell thee something to stop thee ever suffering from hunger again ; just say to thy goat , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat ,"
and then a clean well-spread little table will stand before thee , with the most delicious food upon it of which thou mayst eat as much as thou art inclined for , and when thou hast had enough , and hast no more need of the little table , just say , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , And take the table quite away ,"
and then it will vanish again from thy sight"
Hereupon the wise woman departed.
But person_0-eyes thought , `` I must instantly make a trial , and see if what she said is true , for I am far too hungry ,"
and she said , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat ,"
and scarcely had she spoken the words than a little table , covered with a white cloth , was standing there , and on it was a plate with a knife and fork , and a silver spoon ; and the most delicious food was there also , warm and smoking as if it had just come out of the kitchen.
Then person_0-eyes said the shortest prayer she knew , `` Lord God , be with us always , Amen ,"
and helped herself to some food , and enjoyed it.
And when she was satisfied , she said , as the wise woman had taught her , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , And take the table quite away ,"
and immediately the little table and everything on it was gone again.
`` That is a delightful way of keeping house !"
thought person_0-eyes , and was quite glad and happy.
In the evening , when she went home with her goat , she found a small earthenware dish with some food , which her sisters had set ready for her , but she did not touch it.
Next day she again went out with her goat , and left the few bits of broken bread which had been handed to her , lying untouched.
The first and second time that she did this , her sisters did not remark it at all , but as it happened every time , they did observe it , and said , `` There is something wrong about person_0-eyes , she always leaves her food untasted , and she used to eat up everything that was given her ; she must have discovered other ways of getting food"
In order that they might learn the truth , they resolved to send One-eye with person_0-eyes when she went to drive her goat to the pasture , to observe what person_0-eyes did when she was there , and whether any one brought her anything to eat and drink.
So when person_0-eyes set out the next time , One-eye went to her and said , `` I will go with you to the pasture , and see that the goat is well taken care of , and driven where there is food"
But person_0-eyes knew what was in One-eye 's mind , and drove the goat into high grass and said , `` Come , One-eye , we will sit down , and I will sing something to you"
One-eye sat down and was tired with the unaccustomed walk and the heat of the sun , and person_0-eyes sang constantly , `` One eye , wakest thou ? One eye , sleepest thou ?"
until One-eye shut her one eye , and fell asleep , and as soon as person_0-eyes saw that One-eye was fast asleep , and could discover nothing , she said , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat ,"
and seated herself at her table , and ate and drank until she was satisfied , and then she again cried , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , And take the table quite away ,"
and in an instant all was gone.
person_0-eyes now awakened One-eye , and said , `` One-eye , you want to take care of the goat , and go to sleep while you are doing it , and in the meantime the goat might run all over the world.
Come , let us go home again"
So they went home , and again person_0-eyes let her little dish stand untouched , and One-eye could not tell her mother why she would not eat it , and to excuse herself said , `` I fell asleep when I was out"
Next day the mother said to Three-eyes , `` This time thou shalt go and observe if person_0-eyes eats anything when she is out , and if any one fetches her food and drink , for she must eat and drink in secret"
So Three-eyes went to person_0-eyes , and said , `` I will go with you and see if the goat is taken proper care of , and driven where there is food"
But person_0-eyes knew what was in Three-eyes ' mind , and drove the goat into high grass and said , `` We will sit down , and I will sing something to you , Three-eyes"
Three-eyes sat down and was tired with the walk and with the heat of the sun , and person_0-eyes began the same song as before , and sang , `` Three eyes , are you waking ?"
but then , instead of singing , `` Three eyes , are you sleeping ?"
as she ought to have done , she thoughtlessly sang , `` person_0 eyes , are you sleeping ?"
and sang all the time , `` Three eyes , are you waking ? person_0 eyes , are you sleeping ?"
Then two of the eyes which Three-eyes had , shut and fell asleep , but the third , as it had not been named in the song , did not sleep.
It is true that Three-eyes shut it , but only in her cunning , to pretend it was asleep too , but it blinked , and could see everything very well.
And when person_0-eyes thought that Three-eyes was fast asleep , she used her little charm , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat ,"
and ate and drank as much as her heart desired , and then ordered the table to go away again , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , And take the table quite away ,"
and Three-eyes had seen everything.
Then person_0-eyes came to her , waked her and said , `` Have you been asleep , Three-eyes ? You are a good care-taker ! Come , we will go home"
And when they got home , person_0-eyes again did not eat , and Three-eyes said to the mother , `` Now , I know why that high-minded thing there does not eat.
When she is out , she says to the goat , `` Bleat , my little goat , bleat , Cover the table with something to eat ,"
and then a little table appears before her covered with the best of food , much better than any we have here , and when she has eaten all she wants , she says , `` Bleat , bleat , my little goat , I pray , And take the table quite away ,"
and all disappears.
I watched everything closely.
She put two of my eyes to sleep by using a certain form of words , but luckily the one in my forehead kept awake"
Then the envious mother cried , `` Dost thou want to fare better than we do ? The desire shall pass away ,"
and she fetched a butcher 's knife , and thrust it into the heart of the goat , which fell down dead.
When person_0-eyes saw that , she went out full of trouble , seated herself on the ridge of grass at the edge of the field , and wept bitter tears.
Suddenly the wise woman once more stood by her side , and said , `` person_0-eyes , why art thou weeping ?"
`` Have I not reason to weep ?"
she answered.
`` The goat which covered the table for me every day when I spoke your charm , has been killed by my mother , and now I shall again have to bear hunger and want"
The wise woman said , `` person_0-eyes , I will give thee a piece of good advice ; ask thy sisters to give thee the entrails of the slaughtered goat , and bury them in the ground in front of the house , and thy fortune will be made"
Then she vanished , and person_0-eyes went home and said to her sisters , `` Dear sisters , do give me some part of my goat ; I do n't wish for what is good , but give me the entrails"
Then they laughed and said , `` If that 's all you want , you can have it"
So person_0-eyes took the entrails and buried them quietly in the evening , in front of the house-door , as the wise woman had counselled her to do.
Next morning , when they all awoke , and went to the house-door , there stood a strangely magnificent tree with leaves of silver , and fruit of gold hanging among them , so that in all the wide world there was nothing more beautiful or precious.
They did not know how the tree could have come there during the night , but person_0-eyes saw that it had grown up out of the entrails of the goat , for it was standing on the exact spot where she had buried them.
Then the mother said to One-eye , `` Climb up , my child , and gather some of the fruit of the tree for us"
One-eye climbed up , but when she was about to get hold of one of the golden apples , the branch escaped from her hands , and that happened each time , so that she could not pluck a single apple , let her do what she might.
Then said the mother , `` Three-eyes , do you climb up ; you with your three eyes can look about you better than One-eye"
One-eye slipped down , and Three-eyes climbed up.
Three-eyes was not more skilful , and might search as she liked , but the golden apples always escaped her.
At length the mother grew impatient , and climbed up herself , but could get hold of the fruit no better than One-eye and Three-eyes , for she always clutched empty air.
Then said person_0-eyes , `` I will just go up , perhaps I may succeed better"
The sisters cried , `` You indeed , with your two eyes , what can you do ?"
But person_0-eyes climbed up , and the golden apples did get out of her way , but came into her hand of their own accord , so that she could pluck them one after the other , and brought a whole apronful down with her.
The mother took them away from her , and instead of treating poor person_0-eyes any better for this , she and One-eye and Three-eyes were only envious , because person_0-eyes alone had been able to get the fruit , and they treated her still more cruelly.
It so befell that once when they were all standing together by the tree , a young knight came up.
`` Quick , person_0-eyes ,"
cried the two sisters , `` creep under this , and do n't disgrace us !"
and with all speed they turned an empty barrel which was standing close by the tree over poor person_0-eyes , and they pushed the golden apples which she had been gathering , under it too.
When the knight came nearer he was a handsome lord , who stopped and admired the magnificent gold and silver tree , and said to the two sisters , `` To whom does this fine tree belong ? Any one who would bestow one branch of it on me might in return for it ask whatsoever he desired"
Then One-eye and Three-eyes replied that the tree belonged to them , and that they would give him a branch.
They both took great trouble , but they were not able to do it , for the branches and fruit both moved away from them every time.
Then said the knight , `` It is very strange that the tree should belong to you , and that you should still not be able to break a piece off"
They again asserted that the tree was their property.
Whilst they were saying so , person_0-eyes rolled out a couple of golden apples from under the barrel to the feet of the knight , for she was vexed with One-eye and Three-eyes , for not speaking the truth.
When the knight saw the apples he was astonished , and asked where they came from.
One-eye and Three-eyes answered that they had another sister , who was not allowed to show herself , for she had only two eyes like any common person.
The knight , however , desired to see her , and cried , `` person_0-eyes , come forth"
Then person_0-eyes , quite comforted , came from beneath the barrel , and the knight was surprised at her great beauty , and said , `` Thou , person_0-eyes , canst certainly break off a branch from the tree for me"
`` Yes ,"
replied person_0-eyes , `` that I certainly shall be able to do , for the tree belongs to me"
And she climbed up , and with the greatest ease broke off a branch with beautiful silver leaves and golden fruit , and gave it to the knight.
Then said the knight , `` person_0-eyes , what shall I give thee for it ?"
`` Alas !"
answered person_0-eyes , `` I suffer from hunger and thirst , grief and want , from early morning till late night ; if you would take me with you , and deliver me from these things , I should be happy"
So the knight lifted person_0-eyes on to his horse , and took her home with him to his father 's castle , and there he gave her beautiful clothes , and meat and drink to her heart 's content , and as he loved her so much he married her , and the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing.
When person_0-eyes was thus carried away by the handsome knight , her two sisters grudged her good fortune in downright earnest.
`` The wonderful tree , however , still remains with us ,"
thought they , `` and even if we can gather no fruit from it , still every one will stand still and look at it , and come to us and admire it.
Who knows what good things may be in store for us ?"
But next morning , the tree had vanished , and all their hopes were at an end.
And when person_0-eyes looked out of the window of her own little room , to her great delight it was standing in front of it , and so it had followed her.
person_0-eyes lived a long time in happiness.
Once two poor women came to her in her castle , and begged for alms.
She looked in their faces , and recognized her sisters , One-eye , and Three-eyes , who had fallen into such poverty that they had to wander about and beg their bread from door to door.
person_0-eyes , however , made them welcome , and was kind to them , and took care of them , so that they both with all their hearts repented the evil that they had done their sister in their youth"
There was once a regular student : he lived in a garret , and nothing at all belonged to him ; but there was also once a regular huckster : he lived on the ground floor , and the whole house was his ; and the goblin kept with him , for on the huckster 's table on Christmas Eve there was always a dish of plum porridge , with a great piece of butter floating in the middle.
The huckster could accomplish that ; and consequently the goblin stuck to the huckster 's shop , and that was very interesting.
One evening the student came through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself.
He had no one to send , and that 's why he came himself.
He procured what he wanted and paid for it , and the huckster and his wife both nodded a `` good evening"
to him ; and the woman was one who could do more than merely nod -- she had an immense power of tongue ! And the student nodded too , and then suddenly stood still , reading the sheet of paper in which the cheese had been wrapped.
It was a leaf torn out of an old book , a book that ought not to have been torn up , a book that was full of poetry.
`` Yonder lies some more of the same sort ,"
said the huckster : `` I gave an old woman a little coffee for the books ; give me two groschen , and you shall have the remainder"
`` Yes ,"
said the student , `` give me the book instead of the cheese : I can eat my bread and butter without cheese.
It would be a sin to tear the book up entirely.
You are a capital man , a practical man , but you understand no more about poetry than does that cask yonder"
Now , that was an insulting speech , especially towards the cask ; but the huckster laughed and the student laughed , for it was only said in fun.
But the goblin was angry that any one should dare to say such things to a huckster who lived in his own house and sold the best butter.
When it was night , and the shop was closed and all were in bed , the goblin came forth , went into the bedroom , and took away the good lady 's tongue ; for she did not want that while she was asleep ; and whenever he put this tongue upon any object in the room , the said object acquired speech and language , and could express its thoughts and feelings as well as the lady herself could have done ; but only one object could use it at a time , and that was a good thing , otherwise they would have interrupted each other.
And the goblin laid the tongue upon the cask in which the old newspapers were lying.
`` Is it true ,"
he asked , `` that you do n't know what poetry means ?"
`` Of course I know it ,"
replied the cask : `` poetry is something that always stands at the foot of a column in the newspapers , and is sometimes cut out.
I dare swear I have more of it in me than the student , and I 'm only a poor tub compared to the huckster"
Then the goblin put the tongue upon the coffee-mill , and , mercy ! how it began to go ! And he put it upon the butter-cask , and on the cash-box : they were all of the waste-paper cask 's opinion , and the opinion of the majority must be respected.
`` Now I shall tell it to the student !"
And with these words the goblin went quite quietly up the back stairs to the garret , where the student lived.
The student had still a candle burning , and the goblin peeped through the keyhole , and saw that he was reading in the torn book that he had carried up out of the shop downstairs.
But how light it was in his room ! Out of the book shot a clear beam , expanding into a thick stem , and into a mighty tree , which grew upward and spread its branches far over the student.
Each leaf was fresh , and every blossom was a beautiful female head , some with dark sparkling eyes , others with wonderfully clear blue orbs ; every fruit was a gleaming star , and there was a glorious sound of song in the student 's room.
Never had the little goblin imagined such splendor , far less had he ever seen or heard anything like it.
He stood still on tiptoe , and peeped in till the light went out in the student 's garret.
Probably the student blew it out , and went to bed ; but the little goblin remained standing there nevertheless , for the music still sounded on , soft and beautiful -- a splendid cradle song for the student who had lain down to rest.
`` This is an incomparable place ,"
said the goblin : `` I never expected such a thing ! I should like to stay here with the student"
And then the little man thought it over -- and he was a sensible little man too -- but he sighed , `` The student has no porridge !"
And then he went down again to the huckster 's shop : and it was a very good thing that he got down there again at last , for the cask had almost worn out the good woman 's tongue , for it had spoken out at one side everything that was contained in it , and was just about turning itself over , to give it out from the other side also , when the goblin came in , and restored the tongue to its owner.
But from that time forth the whole shop , from the cash-box down to the firewood , took its tone from the cask , and paid him such respect , and thought so much of him , that when the huckster afterwards read the critical articles on theatricals and art in the newspaper , they were all persuaded the information came from the cask itself.
But the goblin could no longer sit quietly and contentedly listening to all the wisdom down there : so soon as the light glimmered from the garret in the evening he felt as if the rays were strong cables drawing him up , and he was obliged to go and peep through the keyhole ; and there a feeling of greatness rolled around him , such as we feel beside the ever-heaving sea when the storm rushes over it , and he burst into tears ! He did not know himself why he was weeping , but a peculiar feeling of pleasure mingled with his tears.
How wonderfully glorious it must be to sit with the student under the same tree ! But that might not be , he was obliged to be content with the view through the keyhole , and to be glad of that.
There he stood on the cold landing-place , with the autumn wind blowing down from the loft-hole : it was cold , very cold ; but the little mannikin only felt that when the light in the room was extinguished , and the tones in the tree died away.
Ha ! then he shivered , and crept down again to his warm corner , where it was homely and comfortable.
And when Christmas came , and brought with it the porridge and the great lump of butter , why , then he thought the huckster the better man.
But in the middle of the night the goblin was awaked by a terrible tumult and beating against the window shutters.
People rapped noisily without , and the watchman blew his horn , for a great fire had broken out -- the whole street was full of smoke and flame.
Was it in the house itself , or at a neighbour 's ? Where was it ? Terror seized on all.
The huckster 's wife was so bewildered that she took her gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket , that at any rate she might save something ; the huckster ran for his share-papers ; and the maid for her black silk mantilla , for she had found means to purchase one.
Each one wanted to save the best thing they had ; the goblin wanted to do the same thing , and in a few leaps he was up the stairs , and into the room of the student , who stood quite quietly at the open window , looking at the conflagration that was raging in the house of the neighbor opposite.
The goblin seized upon the wonderful book which lay upon the table , popped it into his red cap , and held the cap tight with both hands.
The great treasure of the house was saved ; and now he ran up and away , quite on to the roof of the house , on to the chimney.
There he sat , illuminated by the flames of the burning house opposite , both hands pressed tightly over his cap , in which the treasure lay ; and now he knew the real feelings of his heart , and knew to whom it really belonged.
But when the fire was extinguished , and the goblin could think calmly again , why , then.
`` I must divide myself between the two ,"
he said ; `` I ca n't quite give up the huckster , because of the porridge !"
Now , that was spoken quite like a human creature.
We all of us visit the huckster for the sake of the porridge"
by Brothers Grimm A long time ago there lived a king who was famed for his wisdom through all the land.
Nothing was hidden from him , and it seemed as if news of the most secret things was brought to him through the air.
But he had a strange custom ; every day after dinner , when the table was cleared , and no one else was present , a trusty servant had to bring him one more dish.
It was covered , however , and even the servant did not know what was in it , neither did anyone know , for the person_0 never took off the cover to eat of it until he was quite alone.
This had gone on for a long time , when one day the servant , who took away the dish , was overcome with such curiosity that he could not help carrying the dish into his room.
When he had carefully locked the door , he lifted up the cover , and saw a white snake lying on the dish.
But when he saw it he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it , so he cut off a little bit and put it into his mouth.
No sooner had it touched his tongue than he heard a strange whispering of little voices outside his window.
He went and listened , and then noticed that it was the sparrows who were chattering together , and telling one another of all kinds of things which they had seen in the fields and woods.
Eating the snake had given him power of understanding the language of animals.
Now it so happened that on this very day the Queen lost her most beautiful ring , and suspicion of having stolen it fell upon this trusty servant , who was allowed to go everywhere.
The person_0 ordered the man to be brought before him , and threatened with angry words that unless he could before the morrow point out the thief , he himself should be looked upon as guilty and executed.
In vain he declared his innocence ; he was dismissed with no better answer.
In his trouble and fear he went down into the courtyard and took thought how to help himself out of his trouble.
Now some ducks were sitting together quietly by a brook and taking their rest ; and , whilst they were making their feathers smooth with their bills , they were having a confidential conversation together.
The servant stood by and listened.
They were telling one another of all the places where they had been waddling about all the morning , and what good food they had found , and one said in a pitiful tone , `` Something lies heavy on my stomach ; as I was eating in haste I swallowed a ring which lay under the Queen 's window"
The servant at once seized her by the neck , carried her to the kitchen , and said to the cook , `` Here is a fine duck ; pray , kill her"
`` Yes ,"
said the cook , and weighed her in his hand ; `` she has spared no trouble to fatten herself , and has been waiting to be roasted long enough"
So he cut off her head , and as she was being dressed for the spit , the Queen 's ring was found inside her.
The servant could now easily prove his innocence ; and the person_0 , to make amends for the wrong , allowed him to ask a favor , and promised him the best place in the court that he could wish for.
The servant refused everything , and only asked for a horse and some money for traveling , as he had a mind to see the world and go about a little.
When his request was granted he set out on his way , and one day came to a pond , where he saw three fishes caught in the reeds and gasping for water.
Now , though it is said that fishes are dumb , he heard them lamenting that they must perish so miserably , and , as he had a kind heart , he got off his horse and put the three prisoners back into the water.
They quivered with delight , put out their heads , and cried to him , `` We will remember you and repay you for saving us !"
He rode on , and after a while it seemed to him that he heard a voice in the sand at his feet.
He listened , and heard an ant-king complain , `` Why can not folks , with their clumsy beasts , keep off our bodies ? That stupid horse , with his heavy hoofs , has been treading down my people without mercy !"
So he turned on to a side path and the ant-king cried out to him , `` We will remember you -- one good turn deserves another !"
The path led him into a wood , and here he saw two old ravens standing by their nest , and throwing out their young ones.
`` Out with you , you idle , good-for-nothing creatures !"
cried they ; `` we can not find food for you any longer ; you are big enough , and can provide for yourselves"
But the poor young ravens lay upon the ground , flapping their wings , and crying , `` Oh , what helpless chicks we are ! We must shift for ourselves , and yet we can not fly ! What can we do , but lie here and starve ?"
So the good young fellow alighted and killed his horse with his sword , and gave it to them for food.
Then they came hopping up to it , satisfied their hunger , and cried , `` We will remember you -- one good turn deserves another !"
And now he had to use his own legs , and when he had walked a long way , he came to a large city.
There was a great noise and crowd in the streets , and a man rode up on horseback , crying aloud , `` The person_0 's daughter wants a husband ; but whoever sues for her hand must perform a hard task , and if he does not succeed he will forfeit his life"
Many had already made the attempt , but in vain ; nevertheless when the youth saw the person_0 's daughter he was so overcome by her great beauty that he forgot all danger , went before the person_0 , and declared himself a suitor.
So he was led out to the sea , and a gold ring was thrown into it , in his sight ; then the person_0 ordered him to fetch this ring up from the bottom of the sea , and added , `` If you come up again without it you will be thrown in again and again until you perish amid the waves"
All the people grieved for the handsome youth ; then they went away , leaving him alone by the sea.
He stood on the shore and considered what he should do , when suddenly he saw three fishes come swimming towards him , and they were the very fishes whose lives he had saved.
The one in the middle held a mussel in its mouth , which it laid on the shore at the youth 's feet , and when he had taken it up and opened it , there lay the gold ring in the shell.
Full of joy he took it to the person_0 , and expected that he would grant him the promised reward.
But when the proud princess perceived that he was not her equal in birth , she scorned him , and required him first to perform another task.
She went down into the garden and strewed with her own hands ten sacks-full of millet-seed on the grass ; then she said , `` To-morrow morning before sunrise these must be picked up , and not a single grain be wanting"
The youth sat down in the garden and considered how it might be possible to perform this task , but he could think of nothing , and there he sat sorrowfully awaiting the break of day , when he should be led to death.
But as soon as the first rays of the sun shone into the garden he saw all the ten sacks standing side by side , quite full , and not a single grain was missing.
The ant-king had come in the night with thousands and thousands of ants , and the grateful creatures had by great industry picked up all the millet-seed and gathered them into the sacks.
Presently the person_0 's daughter herself came down into the garden , and was amazed to see that the young man had done the task she had given him.
But she could not yet conquer her proud heart , and said , `` Although he has performed both the tasks , he shall not be my husband until he has brought me an apple from the Tree of Life"
The youth did not know where the Tree of Life stood , but he set out , and would have gone on for ever , as long as his legs would carry him , though he had no hope of finding it.
After he had wandered through three kingdoms , he came one evening to a wood , and lay down under a tree to sleep.
But he heard a rustling in the branches , and a golden apple fell into his hand.
At the same time three ravens flew down to him , perched themselves upon his knee , and said , `` We are the three young ravens whom you saved from starving ; when we had grown big , and heard that you were seeking the Golden Apple , we flew over the sea to the end of the world , where the Tree of Life stands , and have brought you the apple"
The youth , full of joy , set out homewards , and took the Golden Apple to the person_0 's beautiful daughter , who had no more excuses left to make.
They cut the Apple of Life in two and ate it together ; and then her heart became full of love for him , and they lived in undisturbed happiness to a great age"
There was once a poor woodcutter who toiled from early morning till late night.
When at last he had laid by some money he said to his boy , `` You are my only child , I will spend the money which I have earned with the sweat of my brow on your education ; if you learn some honest trade you can support me in my old age , when my limbs have grown stiff and I am obliged to stay at home"
Then the boy went to a High School and learned diligently so that his masters praised him , and he remained there a long time.
When he had worked through two classes , but was still not yet perfect in everything , the little pittance which the father had earned was all spent , and the boy was obliged to return home to him.
`` Ah ,"
said the father , sorrowfully , `` I can give you no more , and in these hard times I can not earn a farthing more than will suffice for our daily bread"
`` Dear father ,"
answered the son , `` do n't trouble yourself about it , if it is God 's will , it will turn to my advantage I shall soon accustom myself to it"
When the father wanted to go into the forest to earn money by helping to pile and stack wood ans also chop it , the son said , `` I will go with you and help you"
`` Nay , my son ,"
said the father , `` that would be hard for you ; you are not accustomed to rough work , and will not be able to bear it , besides I have only one axe and no money left wherewith to buy another"
`` Just go to the neighbor ,"
answered the son , `` he will lend you his axe until I have earned one for myself"
The father then borrowed an axe of the neighbor , and next morning at break of day they went out into the forest together.
The son helped his father and was quite merry and brisk about it.
But when the sun was right over their heads , the father said , `` We will rest , and have our dinner , and then we shall work as well again"
The son took his bread in his hands , and said , `` Just you rest , father , I am not tired ; I will walk up and down a little in the forest , and look for birds ' nests"
`` Oh , you fool ,"
said the father , `` why should you want to run about there ? Afterwards you will be tired , and no longer able to raise your arm ; stay here , and sit down beside me"
The son , however , went into the forest , ate his bread , was very merry and peered in among the green branches to see if he could discover a bird 's nest anywhere.
So he went up and down to see if he could find a bird 's nest until at last he came to a great dangerous-looking oak , which certainly was already many hundred years old , and which five men could not have spanned.
He stood still and looked at it , and thought , `` Many a bird must have built its nest in that"
Then all at once it seemed to him that he heard a voice.
He listened and became aware that someone was crying in a very smothered voice , `` Let me out , let me out !"
He looked around , but could discover nothing ; nevertheless , he fancied that the voice came out of the ground.
Then he cried , `` Where art thou ?"
The voice answered , `` I am down here amongst the roots of the oak-tree.
Let me out ! Let me out !"
The scholar began to loosen the earth under the tree , and search among the roots , until at last he found a glass bottle in a little hollow.
He lifted it up and held it against the light , and then saw a creature shaped like a frog , springing up and down in it.
`` Let me out ! Let me out !"
it cried anew , and the scholar thinking no evil , drew the cork out of the bottle.
Immediately a spirit ascended from it , and began to grow , and grew so fast that in a very few moments he stood before the scholar , a terrible fellow as big as half the tree by which he was standing.
`` Knowest thou ,"
he cried in an awful voice , `` what thy wages are for having let me out ?"
`` No ,"
replied the scholar fearlessly , `` how should I know that ?"
`` Then I will tell thee ,"
cried the spirit ; `` I must strangle thee for it"
`` Thou shouldst have told me that sooner ,"
said the scholar , `` for I should then have left thee shut up , but my head shall stand fast for all thou canst do ; more persons than one must be consulted about that"
`` More persons here , more persons there ,"
said the spirit.
`` Thou shalt have the wages thou hast earned.
Dost thou think that I was shut up there for such a long time as a favor.
No , it was a punishment for me.
I am the mighty Mercurius.
Whoso releases me , him must I strangle"
`` Softly ,"
answered the scholar , `` not so fast.
I must first know that thou really wert shut up in that little bottle , and that thou art the right spirit.
If , indeed , thou canst get in again , I will believe and then thou mayst do as thou wilt with me"
The spirit said haughtily , `` that is a very trifling feat ,"
drew himself together , and made himself as small and slender as he had been at first , so that he crept through the same opening , and right through the neck of the bottle in again.
Scarcely was he within than the scholar thrust the cork he had drawn back into the bottle , and threw it among the roots of the oak into its old place , and the spirit was betrayed.
And now the scolar was about to return to his father , but the spirit cried very piteously , `` Ah , do let me out ! ah , do let me out !"
`` No ,"
answered the scholar , `` not a second time ! He who has once tried to take my life shall not be set free by me , now that I have caught him again"
`` If thou wilt set me free ,"
said the spirit , `` I will give thee so much that thou wilt have plenty all the days of thy life"
`` No ,"
answered the boy , `` thou wouldst cheat me as thou didst the first time"
`` Thou art playing away with thy own good luck ,"
said the spirit ; `` I will do thee no harm but will reward thee richly"
The scholar thought , `` I will venture it , perhaps he will keep his word , and anyhow he shall not get the better of me"
Then he took out the cork , and the spirit rose up from the bottle as he had done before , stretched himself out and became as big as a giant.
`` Now thou shalt have thy reward ,"
said he , and handed the scholar a little bag just like a plaster , and said , `` If thou spreadest one end of this over a wound it will heal , and if thou rubbest steel or iron with the other end it will be changed into silver"
`` I must just try that ,"
said the scholar , and went to a tree , tore off the bark with his axe , and rubbed it with one end of the plaster.
It immediately closed together and was healed.
`` Now , it is all right ,"
he said to the spirit , `` and we can part"
The spirit thanked him for his release , and the boy thanked the spirit for his present , and went back to his father.
`` Where hast thou been racing about ?"
said the father ; `` why hast thou forgotten thy work ? I said at once that thou wouldst never get on with anything"
`` Be easy , father , I will make it up"
`` Make it up indeed ,"
said the father angrily , `` there 's no art in that"
`` Take care , father , I will soon hew that tree there , so that it will split"
Then he took his plaster , rubbed the axe with it , and dealt a mighty blow , but as the iron had changed into silver , the edge turned ; `` Hollo , father , just look what a bad axe you 've given me , it has become quite crooked"
The father was shocked and said , `` Ah , what hast thou done ? now I shall have to pay for that , and have not the wherewithal , and that is all the good I have got by thy work"
`` Do n't get angry ,"
said the son , `` I will soon pay for the axe"
`` Oh , thou blockhead ,"
cried the father , `` wherewith wilt thou pay for it ? Thou hast nothing but what I give thee.
These are students ' tricks that are sticking in thy head , but thou hast no idea of wood-cutting"
After a while the scholar said , `` Father , I can really work no more , we had better take a holiday"
`` Eh , what !"
answered he , `` Dost thou think I will sit with my hands lying in my lap like thee ? I must go on working , but thou mayst take thyself off home"
`` Father , I am here in this wood for the first time , I do n't know my way alone.
Do go with me"
As his anger had now abated , the father at last let himself be persuaded and went home with him.
Then he said to the son , `` Go and sell thy damaged axe , and see what thou canst get for it , and I must earn the difference , in order to pay the neighbor"
The son took the axe , and carried it into town to a goldsmith , who tested it , laid it in the scales , and said , `` It is worth four hundred thalers , I have not so much as that by me"
The son said , `` Give me what thou hast , I will lend you the rest"
The goldsmith gave him three hundred thalers , and remained a hundred in his debt.
The son thereupon went home and said , `` Father , I have got the money , go and ask the neighbor what he wants for the axe"
`` I know that already ,"
answered the old man , `` one thaler , six groschen"
`` Then give him him two thalers , twelve groschen , that is double and enough ; see , I have money in plenty ,"
and he gave the father a hundred thalers , and said , `` You shall never know want , live as comfortably as you like"
`` Good heavens !"
said the father , `` how hast thou come by these riches ?"
The scholar then told how all had come to pass , and how he , trusting in his luck , had made such a good hit.
But with the money that was left , he went back to the High School and went on learning more , and as he could heal all wounds with his plaster , he became the most famous doctor in the whole world"
In the days when wishing was still of some use , a King 's son was bewitched by an old witch , and shut up in an iron stove in a forest.
There he passed many years , and no one could deliver him.
Then a King 's daughter came into the forest , who had lost herself , and could not find her father 's kingdom again.
After she had wandered about for nine days , she at length came to the iron stove.
Then a voice came forth from it , and asked her , `` Whence comest thou , and whither goest , thou ?"
She answered , `` I have lost my father 's kingdom , and can not get home again"
Then a voice inside the iron stove said , `` I will help thee to get home again , and that indeed most swiftly , if thou wilt promise to do what I desire of thee.
I am the son of a far greater King than thy father , and I will marry thee"
Then was she afraid , and thought , `` Good heavens ! What can I do with an iron stove ?"
But as she much wished to get home to her father , she promised to do as he desired.
But he said , `` Thou shalt return here , and bring a knife with thee , and scrape a hole in the iron"
Then he gave her a companion who walked near her , but did not speak , but in two hours he took her home ; there was great joy in the castle when the King 's daughter came home , and the old King fell on her neck and kissed her.
She , however , was sorely troubled , and said , `` Dear father , what I have suffered ! I should never have got home again from the great wild forest , if I had not come to an iron stove , but I have been forced to give my word that I will go back to it , set it free , and marry it"
Then the old King was so terrified that he all but fainted , for he had but this one daughter.
They therefore resolved they would send , in her place , the miller 's daughter , who was very beautiful.
They took her there , gave her a knife , and said she was to scrape at the iron stove.
So she scraped at it for four-and-twenty hours , but could not bring off the least morsel of it.
When day dawned , a voice in the stove said , `` It seems to me it is day outside"
Then she answered , `` It seems so to me too ; I fancy I hear the noise of my father 's mill"
`` So thou art a miller 's daughter ! Then go thy way at once , and let the King 's daughter come here"
Then she went away at once , and told the old King that the man outside there , would have none of her he wanted the King 's daughter.
They , however , still had a swine-herd 's daughter , who was even prettier than the miller 's daughter , and they determined to give her a piece of gold to go to the iron stove instead of the King 's daughter.
So she was taken thither , and she also had to scrape for four-and-twenty hours.
She , however , made nothing of it.
When day broke , a voice inside the stove cried , `` It seems to me it is day outside !"
Then answered she , `` So it seems to me also ; I fancy I hear my father 's horn blowing"
`` Then thou art a swine-herd 's daughter ! Go away at once , and tell the King 's daughter to come , and tell her all must be done as promised , and if she does not come , everything in the kingdom shall be ruined and destroyed , and not one stone be left standing on another"
When the King 's daughter heard that she began to weep , but now there was nothing for it but to keep her promise.
So she took leave of her father , put a knife in her pocket , and went forth to the iron stove in the forest.
When she got there , she began to scrape , and the iron gave way , and when two hours were over , she had already scraped a small hole.
Then she peeped in , and saw a youth so handsome , and so brilliant with gold and with precious jewels , that her very soul was delighted.
Now , therefore , she went on scraping , and made the hole so large that he was able to get out.
Then said he , `` Thou art mine , and I am thine ; thou art my bride , and hast released me"
He wanted to take her away with him to his kingdom , but she entreated him to let her go once again to her father , and the King 's son allowed her to do so , but she was not to say more to her father than three words , and then she was to come back again.
So she went home , but she spoke more than three words , and instantly the iron stove disappeared , and was taken far away over glass mountains and piercing swords ; but the King 's son was set free , and no longer shut up in it.
After this she bade good-bye to her father , took some money with her , but not much , and went back to the great forest , and looked for the iron stove , but it was nowhere to be found.
For nine days she sought it , and then her hunger grew so great that she did not know what to do , for she could no longer live.
When it was evening , she seated herself in a small tree , and made up her mind to spend the night there , as she was afraid of wild beasts.
When midnight drew near she saw in the distance a small light , and thought , `` Ah , there I should be saved !"
She got down from the tree , and went towards the light , but on the way she prayed.
Then she came to a little old house , and much grass had grown all about it , and a small heap of wood lay in front of it.
She thought , `` Ah , whither have I come ,"
and peeped in through the window , but she saw nothing inside but toads , big and little , except a table well covered with wine and roast meat , and the plates and glasses were of silver.
Then she took courage , and knocked at the door.
The fat toad cried , `` Little green waiting-maid , Waiting-maid with the limping leg , Little dog of the limping leg , Hop hither and thither , And quickly see who is without :"
and a small toad came walking by and opened the door to her.
When she entered , they all bade her welcome , and she was forced to sit down.
They asked , `` Where hast thou come from , and whither art thou going ?"
Then she related all that had befallen her , and how because she had transgressed the order which had been given her not to say more than three words , the stove , and the King 's son also , had disappeared , and now she was about to seek him over hill and dale until she found him.
Then the old fat one said , `` Little green waiting-maid , Waiting-maid with the limping leg , Little dog of the limping leg , Hop hither and thither , And bring me the great box"
Then the little one went and brought the box.
After this they gave her meat and drink , and took her to a well-made bed , which felt like silk and velvet , and she laid herself therein , in God 's name , and slept.
When morning came she arose , and the old toad gave her three needles out of the great box which she was to take with her ; they would be needed by her , for she had to cross a high glass mountain , and go over three piercing swords and a great lake.
If she did all this she would get her lover back again.
Then she gave her three things , which she was to take the greatest care of , namely , three large needles , a plough-wheel , and three nuts.
With these she traveled onwards , and when she came to the glass mountain which was so slippery , she stuck the three needles first behind her feet and then before them , and so got over it , and when she was over it , she hid them in a place which she marked carefully.
After this she came to the three piercing swords , and then she seated herself on her plough-wheel , and rolled over them.
At last she arrived in front of a great lake , and when she had crossed it , she came to a large and beautiful castle.
She went and asked for a place ; she was a poor girl , she said , and would like to be hired.
She knew , however , that the King 's son whom she had released from the iron stove in the great forest was in the castle.
Then she was taken as a scullery-maid at low wages.
But , already the King 's son had another maiden by his side whom he wanted to marry , for he thought that she had long been dead.
In the evening , when she had washed up and was done , she felt in her pocket and found the three nuts which the old toad had given her.
She cracked one with her teeth , and was going to eat the kernel when lo and behold there was a stately royal garment in it ! But when the bride heard of this she came and asked for the dress , and wanted to buy it , and said , `` It is not a dress for a servant-girl"
But she said no , she would not sell it , but if the bride would grant her one thing she should have it , and that was , leave to sleep one night in her bridegroom 's chamber.
The bride gave her permission because the dress was so pretty , and she had never had one like it.
When it was evening she said to her bridegroom , `` That silly girl will sleep in thy room"
`` If thou art willing so am I ,"
said he.
She , however , gave him a glass of wine in which she had poured a sleeping-draught.
So the bridegroom and the scullery-maid went to sleep in the room , and he slept so soundly that she could not waken him.
She wept the whole night and cried , `` I set thee free when thou wert in an iron stove in the wild forest , I sought thee , and walked over a glass mountain , and three sharp swords , and a great lake before I found thee , and yet thou wilt not hear me !"
The servants sat by the chamber-door , and heard how she thus wept the whole night through , and in the morning they told it to their lord.
And the next evening when she had washed up , she opened the second nut , and a far more beautiful dress was within it , and when the bride beheld it , she wished to buy that also.
But the girl would not take money , and begged that she might once again sleep in the bridegroom 's chamber.
The bride , however , gave him a sleeping-drink , and he slept so soundly that he could hear nothing.
But the scullery-maid wept the whole night long , and cried , `` I set thee free when thou wert in an iron stove in the wild forest , I sought thee , and walked over a glass mountain , and over three sharp swords and a great lake before I found thee , and yet thou wilt not hear me !"
The servants sat by the chamber-door and heard her weeping the whole night through , and in the morning informed their lord of it.
And on the third evening , when she had washed up , she opened the third nut , and within it was a still more beautiful dress which was stiff with pure gold.
When the bride saw that she wanted to have it , but the maiden only gave it up on condition that she might for the third time sleep in the bridegroom 's apartment.
The King 's son was , however , on his guard , and threw the sleeping-draught away.
Now , therefore , when she began to weep and to cry , `` Dearest love , I set thee free when thou wert in the iron stove in the terrible wild forest ,"
the King 's son leapt up and said , `` Thou art the true one , thou art mine , and I am thine"
Thereupon , while it was still night , he got into a carriage with her , and they took away the false bride 's clothes so that she could not get up.
When they came to the great lake , they sailed across it , and when they reached the three sharp-cutting swords they seated themselves on the plough-wheel , and when they got to the glass mountain they thrust the three needles in it , and so at length they got to the little old house ; but when they went inside that , it was a great castle , and the toads were all disenchanted , and were King 's children , and full of happiness.
Then the wedding was celebrated , and the King 's son and the princess remained in the castle , which was much larger than the castles of their fathers.
As , however , the old King grieved at being left alone , they fetched him away , and brought him to live with them , and they had two kingdoms , and lived in happy wedlock.
A mouse did run , This story is done"
A rich farmer was one day standing in his yard inspecting his fields and gardens.
The corn was growing up vigorously and the fruit-trees were heavily laden with fruit.
The grain of the year before still lay in such immense heaps on the floors that the rafters could hardly bear it.
Then he went into the stable , where were well-fed oxen , fat cows , and horses bright as looking-glass.
At length he went back into his sitting-room , and cast a glance at the iron chest in which his money lay.
Whilst he was thus standing surveying his riches , all at once there was a loud knock close by him.
The knock was not at the door of his room , but at the door of his heart.
It opened , and he heard a voice which said to him , `` Hast thou done good to thy family with it ? Hast thou considered the necessities of the poor ? Hast thou shared thy bread with the hungry ? Hast thou been contented with what thou hast , or didst thou always desire to have more ?"
The heart was not slow in answering , `` I have been hard and pitiless , and have never shown any kindness to my own family.
If a beggar came , I turned away my eyes from him.
I have not troubled myself about God , but have thought only of increasing my wealth.
If everything which the sky covers had been mine own , I should still not have had enough"
When he was aware of this answer he was greatly alarmed , his knees began to tremble , and he was forced to sit down.
Then there was another knock , but the knock was at the door of his room.
It was his neighbor , a poor man who had a number of children whom he could no longer satisfy with food.
`` I know ,"
thought the poor man , `` that my neighbor is rich , but he is as hard as he is rich.
I do n't believe he will help me , but my children are crying for bread , so I will venture it"
He said to the rich man , `` You do not readily give away anything that is yours , but I stand here like one who feels the water rising above his head.
My children are starving , lend me four measures \* of corn"
The rich man looked at him long , and then the first sunbeam of mercy began to melt away a drop of the ice of greediness.
`` I will not lend thee four measures ,"
he answered , `` but I will make thee a present of eight , but thou must fulfil one condition"
`` What am I to do ?"
said the poor man.
`` When I am dead , thou shalt watch for three nights by my grave"
The peasant was disturbed in his mind at this request , but in the need in which he was , he would have consented to anything ; he accepted , therefore , and carried the corn home with him.
It seemed as if the rich man had foreseen what was about to happen , for when three days were gone by , he suddenly dropped down dead.
No one knew exactly how it came to pass , but no one grieved for him.
When he was buried , the poor man remembered his promise ; he would willingly have been released from it , but he thought , `` After all , he acted kindly by me.
I have fed my hungry children with his corn , and even if that were not the case , where I have once given my promise I must keep it"
At nightfall he went into the churchyard , and seated himself on the grave-mound.
Everything was quiet , only the moon appeared above the grave , and frequently an owl flew past and uttered her melancholy cry.
When the sun rose , the poor man betook himself in safety to his home , and in the same manner the second night passed quietly by.
On the evening of the third day he felt a strange uneasiness , it seemed to him that something was about to happen.
When he went out he saw , by the churchyard-wall , a man whom he had never seen before.
He was no longer young , had scars on his face , and his eyes looked sharply and eagerly around.
He was entirely covered with an old cloak , and nothing was visible but his great riding-boots.
`` What are you looking for here ?"
the peasant asked.
`` Are you not afraid of the lonely churchyard ?"
`` I am looking for nothing ,"
he answered , `` and I am afraid of nothing ! I am like the youngster who went forth to learn how to shiver , and had his labor for his pains , but got the King 's daughter to wife and great wealth with her , only I have remained poor.
I am nothing but a paid-off soldier , and I mean to pass the night here , because I have no other shelter"
`` If you are without fear ,"
said the peasant , `` stay with me , and help me to watch that grave there"
`` To keep watch is a soldier 's business ,"
he replied , `` whatever we fall in with here , whether it be good or bad , we will share it between us"
The peasant agreed to this , and they seated themselves on the grave together.
All was quiet until midnight , when suddenly a shrill whistling was heard in the air , and the two watchers perceived the Evil One standing bodily before them.
`` Be off , you ragamuffins !"
cried he to them , `` the man who lies in that grave belongs to me ; I want to take him , and if you do n't go away I will wring your necks !"
`` Sir with the red feather ,"
said the soldier , `` you are not my captain , I have no need to obey you , and I have not yet learned how to fear.
Go away , we shall stay sitting here"
The person_0 thought to himself , `` Money is the best thing with which to get hold of these two vagabonds"
So he began to play a softer tune , and asked quite kindly , if they would not accept a bag of money , and go home with it ? `` That is worth listening to ,"
answered the soldier , `` but one bag of gold wo n't serve us , if you will give as much as will go into one of my boots , we will quit the field for you and go away"
`` I have not so much as that about me ,"
said the person_0 , `` but I will fetch it.
In the neighbouring town lives a money-changer who is a good friend of mine , and will readily advance it to me"
When the person_0 had vanished the soldier took his left boot off , and said , `` We will soon pull the charcoal-burner 's nose for him , just give me your knife , comrade"
He cut the sole off the boot , and put it in the high grass near the grave on the edge of a hole that was half over-grown.
`` That will do ,"
said he ; `` now the chimney-sweep may come"
They both sat down and waited , and it was not long before the person_0 returned with a small bag of gold in his hand.
`` Just pour it in ,"
said the soldier , raising up the boot a little , `` but that wo n't be enough"
The Black One shook out all that was in the bag ; the gold fell through , and the boot remained empty.
`` Stupid person_0 ,"
cried the soldier , `` it wo n't do ! Did n't I say so at once ? Go back again , and bring more"
The person_0 shook his head , went , and in an hour 's time came with a much larger bag under his arm.
`` Now pour it in ,"
cried the soldier , `` but I doubt the boot wo n't be full"
The gold clinked as it fell , but the boot remained empty.
The person_0 looked in himself with his burning eyes , and convinced himself of the truth.
`` You have shamefully big calves to your legs !"
cried he , and made a wry face.
`` Did you think ,"
replied the soldier , `` that I had a cloven foot like you ? Since when have you been so stingy ? See that you get more gold together , or our bargain will come to nothing !"
The Wicked One went off again.
This time he stayed away longer , and when at length he appeared he was panting under the weight of a sack which lay on his shoulders.
He emptied it into the boot , which was just as far from being filled as before.
He became furious , and was just going to tear the boot out of the soldier 's hands , but at that moment the first ray of the rising sun broke forth from the sky , and the Evil Spirit fled away with loud shrieks.
The poor soul was saved.
The peasant wished to divide the gold , but the soldier said , `` Give what falls to my lot to the poor , I will come with thee to thy cottage , and together we will live in rest and peace on what remains , as long as God is pleased to permit"
Master Pfriem was a short , thin , but lively man , who never rested a moment.
His face , of which his turned-up nose was the only prominent feature , was marked with small-pox and pale as death , his hair was gray and shaggy , his eyes small , but they glanced perpetually about on all sides.
He saw everything , criticised everything , knew everything best , and was always in the right.
When he went into the streets , he moved his arms about as if he were rowing ; and once he struck the pail of a girl , who was carrying water , so high in the air that he himself was wetted all over by it.
`` Stupid thing ,"
cried he to her , while he was shaking himself , `` couldst thou not see that I was coming behind thee ?"
By trade he was a shoemaker , and when he worked he pulled his thread out with such force that he drove his fist into every one who did not keep far enough off.
No apprentice stayed more than a month with him , for he had always some fault to find with the very best work.
At one time it was that the stitches were not even , at another that one shoe was too long , or one heel higher than the other , or the leather not cut large enough.
`` Wait ,"
said he to his apprentice , `` I will soon show thee how we make skins soft ,"
and he brought a strap and gave him a couple of strokes across the back.
He called them all sluggards.
He himself did not turn much work out of his hands , for he never sat still for a quarter of an hour.
If his wife got up very early in the morning and lighted the fire , he jumped out of bed , and ran bare-footed into the kitchen , crying , `` Wilt thou burn my house down for me ? That is a fire one could roast an ox by ! Does wood cost nothing ?"
If the servants were standing by their wash-tubs and laughing , and telling each other all they knew , he scolded them , and said , `` There stand the geese cackling , and forgetting their work , to gossip ! And why fresh soap ? Disgraceful extravagance and shameful idleness into the bargain ! They want to save their hands , and not rub the things properly !"
And out he would run and knock a pail full of soap and water over , so that the whole kitchen was flooded.
Someone was building a new house , so he hurried to the window to look on.
`` There , they are using that red sand-stone again that never dries !"
cried he.
`` No one will ever be healthy in that house ! and just look how badly the fellows are laying the stones ! Besides , the mortar is good for nothing ! It ought to have gravel in it , not sand.
I shall live to see that house tumble down on the people who are in it"
He sat down , put a couple of stitches in , and then jumped up again , unfastened his leather-apron , and cried , `` I will just go out , and appeal to those men 's consciences"
He stumbled on the carpenters.
`` What 's this ?"
cried he , `` you are not working by the line ! Do you expect the beams to be straight ? -- one wrong will put all wrong"
He snatched an axe out of a carpenter 's hand and wanted to show him how he ought to cut ; but as a cart loaded with clay came by , he threw the axe away , and hastened to the peasant who was walking by the side of it : `` You are not in your right mind ,"
said he , `` who yokes young horses to a heavily-laden cart ? The poor beasts will die on the spot"
The peasant did not give him an answer , and Pfriem in a rage ran back into his workshop.
When he was setting himself to work again , the apprentice reached him a shoe.
`` Well , what 's that again ?"
screamed he , `` Have n't I told you you ought not to cut shoes so broad ? Who would buy a shoe like this , which is hardly anything else but a sole ? I insist on my orders being followed exactly"
`` Master ,"
answered the apprentice , `` you may easily be quite right about the shoe being a bad one , but it is the one which you yourself cut out , and yourself set to work at.
When you jumped up a while since , you knocked it off the table , and I have only just picked it up.
An angel from heaven , however , would never make you believe that"
One night Master Pfriem dreamed he was dead , and on his way to heaven.
When he got there , he knocked loudly at the door.
`` I wonder ,"
said he to himself , `` that they have no knocker on the door , -- one knocks one 's knuckles sore"
The apostle Peter opened the door , and wanted to see who demanded admission so noisily.
`` Ah , it 's you , Master Pfriem ;"
said he , `` well , I 'll let you in , but I warn you that you must give up that habit of yours , and find fault with nothing you see in heaven , or you may fare ill"
`` You might have spared your warning ,"
answered Pfriem.
`` I know already what is seemly , and here , God be thanked , everything is perfect , and there is nothing to blame as there is on earth"
So he went in , and walked up and down the wide expanses of heaven.
He looked around him , to the left and to the right , but sometimes shook his head , or muttered something to himself.
Then he saw two angels who were carrying away a beam.
It was the beam which some one had had in his own eye whilst he was looking for the splinter in the eye of another.
They did not , however , carry the beam lengthways , but obliquely.
`` Did any one ever see such a piece of stupidity ?"
thought Master Pfriem ; but he said nothing , and seemed satisfied with it.
`` It comes to the same thing after all , whichever way they carry the beam , straight or crooked , if they only get along with it , and truly I do not see them knock against anything"
Soon after this he saw two angels who were drawing water out of a well into a bucket , but at the same time he observed that the bucket was full of holes , and that the water was running out of it on every side.
They were watering the earth with rain.
`` Hang it ,"
he exclaimed ; but happily recollected himself , and thought , `` Perhaps it is only a pastime.
If it is an amusement , then it seems they can do useless things of this kind even here in heaven , where people , as I have already noticed , do nothing but idle about"
He went farther and saw a cart which had stuck fast in a deep hole.
`` It 's no wonder ,"
said he to the man who stood by it ; `` who would load so unreasonably ? what have you there ?"
`` Good wishes ,"
replied the man , `` I could not go along the right way with it , but still I have pushed it safely up here , and they wo n't leave me sticking here"
In fact an angel did come and harnessed two horses to it.
`` That 's quite right ,"
thought Pfriem , `` but two horses wo n't get that cart out , it must at least have four to it"
Another angel came and brought two more horses ; she did not , however , harness them in front of it , but behind.
That was too much for Master Pfriem , `` Clumsy creature ,"
he burst out with , `` what are you doing there ? Has any one ever since the world began seen a cart drawn in that way ? But you , in your conceited arrogance , think that you know everything best"
He was going to say more , but one of the inhabitants of heaven seized him by the throat and pushed him forth with irresistible strength.
Beneath the gateway Master Pfriem turned his head round to take one more look at the cart , and saw that it was being raised into the air by four winged horses.
At this moment Master Pfriem awoke.
`` Things are certainly arranged in heaven otherwise than they are on earth ,"
said he to himself , `` and that excuses much ; but who can see horses harnessed both behind and before with patience ; to be sure they had wings , but who could know that ? It is , besides , great folly to fix a pair of wings to a horse that has four legs to run with already ! But I must get up , or else they will make nothing but mistakes for me in my house.
It is a lucky thing for me though , that I am not really dead"
There was once a rich man , who had a servant who served him diligently and honestly : He was every morning the first out of bed , and the last to go to rest at night ; and , whenever there was a difficult job to be done , which nobody cared to undertake , he was always the first to set himself to it.
Moreover , he never complained , but was contented with everything , and always merry.
When a year was ended , his master gave him no wages , for he said to himself , `` That is the cleverest way ; for I shall save something , and he will not go away , but stay quietly in my service"
The servant said nothing , but did his work the second year as he had done it the first ; and when at the end of this , likewise , he received no wages , he made himself happy , and still stayed on.
When the third year also was past , the master considered , put his hand in his pocket , but pulled nothing out.
Then at last the servant said , `` Master , for three years I have served you honestly , be so good as to give me what I ought to have , for I wish to leave , and look about me a little more in the world"
`` Yes , my good fellow ,"
answered the old miser ; `` you have served me industriously , and , therefore , you shall be cheerfully rewarded ;"
And he put his hand into his pocket , but counted out only three farthings , saying , `` There , you have a farthing for each year ; that is large and liberal pay , such as you would have received from few masters"
The honest servant , who understood little about money , put his fortune into his pocket , and thought , `` Ah ! now that I have my purse full , why need I trouble and plague myself any longer with hard work !"
So on he went , up hill and down dale ; and sang and jumped to his heart 's content.
Now it came to pass that as he was going by a thicket a little man stepped out , and called to him , `` Whither away , merry brother ? I see you do not carry many cares"
`` Why should I be sad ?"
answered the servant ; `` I have enough ; three years ' wages are jingling in my pocket"
`` How much is your treasure ?"
the dwarf asked him.
`` How much ? Three farthings sterling , all told"
`` Look here ,"
said the dwarf , `` I am a poor needy man , give me your three farthings ; I can work no longer , but you are young , and can easily earn your bread"
And as the servant had a good heart , and felt pity for the old man , he gave him the three farthings , saying , `` Take them in the name of Heaven , I shall not be any the worse for it"
Then the little man said , `` As I see you have a good heart I grant you three wishes , one for each farthing , they shall all be fulfilled"
`` Aha ?"
said the servant , `` you are one of those who can work wonders ! Well , then , if it is to be so , I wish , first , for a gun , which shall hit everything that I aim at ; secondly , for a fiddle , which when I play on it , shall compel all who hear it to dance ; thirdly , that if I ask a favor of any one he shall not be able to refuse it"
`` All that shall you have ,"
said the dwarf ; and put his hand into the bush , and only think , there lay a fiddle and gun , all ready , just as if they had been ordered.
These he gave to the servant , and then said to him , `` Whatever you may ask at any time , no man in the world shall be able to deny you"
`` Heart alive ! What can one desire more ?"
said the servant to himself , and went merrily onwards.
Soon afterwards he met a person_0 with a long goat 's - beard , who was standing listening to the song of a bird which was sitting up at the top of a tree.
`` Good heavens ,"
he was exclaiming , `` that such a small creature should have such a fearfully loud voice ! If it were but mine ! If only someone would sprinkle some salt upon its tail !"
`` If that is all ,"
said the servant , `` the bird shall soon be down here ;"
And taking aim he pulled the trigger , and down fell the bird into the thorn-bushes.
`` Go , you rogue ,"
he said to the person_0 , `` and fetch the bird out for yourself !"
`` Oh !"
said the person_0 , `` leave out the rogue , my master , and I will do it at once.
I will get the bird out for myself , as you really have hit it"
Then he lay down on the ground , and began to crawl into the thicket.
When he was fast among the thorns , the good servant 's humor so tempted him that he took up his fiddle and began to play.
In a moment the person_0 's legs began to move , and to jump into the air , and the more the servant fiddled the better went the dance.
But the thorns tore his shabby coat from him , combed his beard , and pricked and plucked him all over the body.
`` Oh dear ,"
cried the person_0 , `` what do I want with your fiddling ? Leave the fiddle alone , master ; I do not want to dance"
But the servant did not listen to him , and thought , `` You have fleeced people often enough , now the thorn-bushes shall do the same to you ;"
and he began to play over again , so that the person_0 had to jump higher than ever , and scraps of his coat were left hanging on the thorns.
`` Oh , woe 's me ! cried the person_0 ; I will give the gentleman whatsoever he asks if only he leaves off fiddling a purse full of gold"
`` If you are so liberal ,"
said the servant , `` I will stop my music ; but this I must say to your credit , that you dance to it so well that it is quite an art ;"
and having taken the purse he went his way.
The person_0 stood still and watched the servant quietly until he was far off and out of sight , and then he screamed out with all his might , `` You miserable musician , you beer-house fiddler ! wait till I catch you alone , I will hunt you till the soles of your shoes fall off ! You ragamuffin ! just put five farthings in your mouth , and then you may be worth three halfpence !"
and went on abusing him as fast as he could speak.
As soon as he had refreshed himself a little in this way , and got his breath again , he ran into the town to the justice.
`` My lord judge ,"
he said , `` I have come to make a complaint ; see how a rascal has robbed and ill-treated me on the public highway ! a stone on the ground might pity me ; my clothes all torn , my body pricked and scratched , my little all gone with my purse , good ducats , each piece better than the last ; for God 's sake let the man be thrown into prison !"
`` Was it a soldier ,"
said the judge , `` who cut you thus with his sabre ?"
`` Nothing of the sort !"
said the person_0 ; `` it was no sword that he had , but a gun hanging at his back , and a fiddle at his neck ; the wretch may easily be known"
So the judge sent his people out after the man , and they found the good servant , who had been going quite slowly along , and they found , too , the purse with the money upon him.
As soon as he was taken before the judge he said , `` I did not touch the person_0 , nor take his money ; he gave it to me of his own free will , that I might leave off fiddling because he could not bear my music"
`` Heaven defend us !"
cried the person_0 , `` his lies are as thick as flies upon the wall"
But the judge also did not believe his tale , and said , `` This is a bad defense , no person_0 would do that"
And because he had committed robbery on the public highway , he sentenced the good servant to be hanged.
As he was being led away the person_0 again screamed after him , `` You vagabond ! you dog of a fiddler ! now you are going to receive your well-earned reward !"
The servant walked quietly with the hangman up the ladder , but upon the last step he turned round and said to the judge , `` Grant me just one request before I die"
`` Yes , if you do not ask your life ,"
said the judge.
`` I do not ask for life ,"
answered the servant , `` but as a last favor let me play once more upon my fiddle"
The person_0 raised a great cry of `` Murder ! murder ! for goodness ' sake do not allow it ! Do not allow it !"
But the judge said , `` Why should I not let him have this short pleasure ? it has been granted to him , and he shall have it"
However , he could not have refused on account of the gift which had been bestowed on the servant.
Then the person_0 cried , `` Oh ! woe 's me ! tie me , tie me fast !"
while the good servant took his fiddle from his neck , and made ready.
As he gave the first scrape , they all began to quiver and shake , the judge , his clerk , and the hangman and his men , and the cord fell out of the hand of the one who was going to tie the person_0 fast.
At the second scrape all raised their legs , and the hangman let go his hold of the good servant , and made himself ready to dance.
At the third scrape they all leaped up and began to dance ; the judge and the person_0 being the best at jumping.
Soon all who had gathered in the market-place out of curiosity were dancing with them ; old and young , fat and lean , one with another.
The dogs , likewise , which had run there got up on their hind legs and capered about ; and the longer he played , the higher sprang the dancers , so that they knocked against each other 's heads , and began to shriek terribly.
At length the judge cried , quite out of breath , `` I will give you your life if you will only stop fiddling"
The good servant thereupon had compassion , took his fiddle and hung it round his neck again , and stepped down the ladder.
Then he went up to the person_0 , who was lying upon the ground panting for breath , and said , `` You rascal , now confess , whence you got the money , or I will take my fiddle and begin to play again"
`` I stole it , I stole it !"
cried he ; `` but you have honestly earned it"
So the judge had the person_0 taken to the gallows and hanged as a thief"
In the Garden of person_1 , beneath the Tree of Knowledge , bloomed a rose bush.
Here , in the first rose , a bird was born : his flight was like the flashing of light , his plumage was beauteous , and his song ravishing.
But when Eve plucked the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil , when she and Adam were driven from person_1 , there fell from the flaming sword of the cherub a spark into the nest of the bird , which blazed up forthwith.
The bird perished in the flames ; but from the red egg in the nest there fluttered aloft a new one -- the one solitary person_0 bird.
The fable tells us that he dwells in Arabia , and that every year he burns himself to death in his nest ; but each time a new person_0 , the only one in the world , rises up from the red egg.
The bird flutters round us , swift as light , beauteous in color , charming in song.
When a mother sits by her infant 's cradle , he stands on the pillow , and , with his wings , forms a glory around the infant 's head.
He flies through the chamber of content , and brings sunshine into it , and the violets on the humble table smell doubly sweet.
But the person_0 is not the bird of Arabia alone.
He wings his way in the glimmer of the northern lights over the plains of Lapland , and hops among the yellow flowers in the short Greenland summer.
Beneath the copper mountains of Fablun , and England 's coal mines , he flies , in the shape of a dusty moth , over the hymn-book that rests on the knees of the pious miner.
On a lotus leaf he floats down the sacred waters of the Ganges , and the eye of the Hindoo maid gleams bright when she beholds him.
The person_0 bird , dost thou not know him ? The Bird of person_1 , the holy swan of song ! On the car of Thespis he sat in the guise of a chattering raven , and flapped his black wings , smeared with the lees of wine ; over the sounding harp of Iceland swept the swan 's red beak ; on Shakespeare 's shoulder he sat in the guise of Odin 's raven , and whispered in the poet 's ear `` Immortality !"
and at the minstrels ' feast he fluttered through the halls of the Wartburg.
The person_0 bird , dost thou not know him ? He sang to thee the _ Marseillaise _ , and thou kissedst the pen that fell from his wing ; he came in the radiance of person_1 , and perchance thou didst turn away from him towards the sparrow who sat with tinsel on his wings.
The Bird of person_1 -- renewed each century -- born in flame , ending in flame ! Thy picture , in a golden frame , hangs in the halls of the rich ; and thou thyself often fliest around , lonely and disregarded , a myth -- `` The person_0 of Arabia"
In person_1 , when thou wert born in the first rose , beneath the Tree of Knowledge , thou receivedst a kiss , and thy right name was given thee -- thy name , POETRY"
Hear what the Moon told me.
`` Some years ago , here in Copenhagen , I looked through the window of a mean little room.
The father and mother slept , but the little son was not asleep.
I saw the flowered cotton curtains of the bed move , and the child peep forth.
At first I thought he was looking at the great clock , which was gaily painted in red and green.
At the top sat a cuckoo , below hung the heavy leaden weights , and the pendulum with the polished disc of metal went to and fro , and said ` tick , tick.
' But no , he was not looking at the clock , but at his mother 's spinning wheel , that stood just underneath it.
That was the boy 's favorite piece of furniture , but he dared not touch it , for if he meddled with it he got a rap on the knuckles.
For hours together , when his mother was spinning , he would sit quietly by her side , watching the murmuring spindle and the revolving wheel , and as he sat he thought of many things.
Oh , if he might only turn the wheel himself ! Father and mother were asleep ; he looked at them , and looked at the spinning wheel , and presently a little naked foot peered out of the bed , and then a second foot , and then two little white legs.
There he stood.
He looked round once more , to see if father and mother were still asleep -- yes , they slept ; and now he crept _ softly _ , _ softly _ , in his short little nightgown , to the spinning wheel , and began to spin.
The thread flew from the wheel , and the wheel whirled faster and faster.
I kissed his fair hair and his blue eyes , it was such a pretty picture.
`` At that moment the mother awoke.
The curtain shook , she looked forth , and fancied she saw a gnome or some other kind of little spectre.
` In Heaven 's name ! ' she cried , and aroused her husband in a frightened way.
He opened his eyes , rubbed them with his hands , and looked at the brisk little lad.
` Why , that is person_0 , ' said he.
And my eye quitted the poor room , for I have so much to see.
At the same moment I looked at the halls of the Vatican , where the marble gods are enthroned.
I shone upon the group of the Laocoon ; the stone seemed to sigh.
I pressed a silent kiss on the lips of the Muses , and they seemed to stir and move.
But my rays lingered longest about the Nile group with the colossal god.
Leaning against the Sphinx , he lies there thoughtful and meditative , as if he were thinking on the rolling centuries ; and little love-gods sport with him and with the crocodiles.
In the horn of plenty sat with folded arms a little tiny love-god , contemplating the great solemn river-god , a true picture of the boy at the spinning wheel -- the features were exactly the same.
Charming and life-like stood the little marble form , and yet the wheel of the year has turned more than a thousand times since the time when it sprang forth from the stone.
Just as often as the boy in the little room turned the spinning wheel had the great wheel murmured , before the age could again call forth marble gods equal to those he afterwards formed.
`` Years have passed since all this happened ,"
the Moon went on to say.
`` Yesterday I looked upon a bay on the eastern coast of Denmark.
Glorious woods are there , and high trees , an old knightly castle with red walls , swans floating in the ponds , and in the background appears , among orchards , a little town with a church.
Many boats , the crews all furnished with torches , glided over the silent expanse -- but these fires had not been kindled for catching fish , for everything had a festive look.
Music sounded , a song was sung , and in one of the boats the man stood erect to whom homage was paid by the rest , a tall sturdy man , wrapped in a cloak.
He had blue eyes and long white hair.
I knew him , and thought of the Vatican , and of the group of the Nile , and the old marble gods.
I thought of the simple little room where little person_0 sat in his night-shirt by the spinning wheel.
The wheel of time has turned , and new gods have come forth from the stone.
From the boats there arose a shout : ` Hurrah , hurrah for person_0 Thorwaldsen ! '"
In the room of a poet , where his inkstand stood upon the table , it was said , `` It is wonderful what can come out of an inkstand.
What will the next thing be ? It is wonderful !"
`` Yes , certainly ,"
said the person_0.
`` It 's extraordinary -- that 's what I always say ,"
he exclaimed to the pen and to the other articles on the table that were near enough to hear.
`` It is wonderful what a number of things can come out of me.
It 's quite incredible.
And I really do n't myself know what will be the next thing , when that man begins to dip into me.
One drop out of me is enough for half a page of paper ; and what can not be contained in half a page ? From me all the works of the poet go forth -- all these living men , whom people can imagine they have met -- all the deep feeling , the humor , the vivid pictures of nature.
I myself do n't understand how it is , for I am not acquainted with nature , but it certainly is in me.
From me all these things have gone forth , and from me proceed the troops of charming maidens , and of brave knights on prancing steeds , and all the lame and the blind , and I do n't know what more -- I assure you I do n't think of anything"
`` There you are right ,"
said the Pen ; `` you do n't think at all ; for if you did , you would comprehend that you only furnish the fluid.
You give the fluid , that I may exhibit upon the paper what dwells in me , and what I would bring to the day.
It is the pen that writes.
No man doubts that ; and , indeed , most people have about as much insight into poetry as an old inkstand"
`` You have but little experience ,"
replied the person_0.
`` You 've hardly been in service a week , and are already half worn out.
Do you fancy you are the poet ? You are only a servant ; and before you came I had many of your sort , some of the goose family , and others of English manufacture.
I know the quill as well as the steel pen.
Many have been in my service , and I shall have many more when _ he _ comes -- the man who goes through the motions for me , and writes down what he derives from me.
I should like to know what will be the next thing he 'll take out of me"
`` Inkpot !"
exclaimed the Pen.
Late in the evening the poet came home.
He had been to a concert , where he had heard a famous violinist , with whose admirable performances he was quite enchanted.
The player had drawn a wonderful wealth of tone from the instrument : sometimes it had sounded like tinkling water-drops , like rolling pearls , sometimes like birds twittering in chorus , and then again it went swelling on like the wind through the fir trees.
The poet thought he heard his own heart weeping , but weeping melodiously , like the sound of woman 's voice.
It seemed as though not only the strings sounded , but every part of the instrument.
It was a wonderful performance ; and difficult as the piece was , the bow seemed to glide easily to and fro over the strings , and it looked as though every one might do it.
The violin seemed to sound of itself , and the bow to move of itself -- those two appeared to do everything ; and the audience forgot the master who guided them and breathed soul and spirit into them.
The master was forgotten ; but the poet remembered him , and named him , and wrote down his thoughts concerning the subject : `` How foolish it would be of the violin and the bow to boast of their achievements.
And yet we men often commit this folly -- the poet , the artist , the labourer in the domain of science , the general -- we all do it.
We are only the instruments which the Almighty uses : to Him alone be the honor ! We have nothing of which we should be proud"
Yes , that is what the poet wrote down.
He wrote it in the form of a parable , which he called `` The Master and the Instruments"
`` That is what you get , madam ,"
said the Pen to the person_0 , when the two were alone again.
`` Did you not hear him read aloud what I have written down ?"
`` Yes , what I gave you to write ,"
retorted the person_0.
`` That was a cut at you , because of your conceit.
That you should not even have understood that you were being quizzed ! I gave you a cut from within me -- surely I must know my own satire !"
`` Ink-pipkin !"
cried the Pen.
`` Writing-stick !"
cried the person_0.
And each of them felt a conviction that he had answered well ; and it is a pleasing conviction to feel that one has given a good answer -- a conviction on which one can sleep ; and accordingly they slept upon it.
But the poet did not sleep.
Thoughts welled up from within him , like the tones from the violin , falling like pearls , rushing like the storm-wind through the forests.
He understood his own heart in these thoughts , and caught a ray from the Eternal Master.
To _ Him _ be all the honor !"
A soldier who is afraid of nothing , troubles himself about nothing.
One of this kind had received his discharge , and as he had learned no trade and could earn nothing , he traveled about and begged alms of kind people.
He had an old waterproof on his back , and a pair of riding-boots of buffalo-leather which were still left to him.
One day he was walking he knew not where , straight out into the open country , and at length came to a forest.
He did not know where he was , but saw sitting on the trunk of a tree , which had been cut down , a man who was well dressed and wore a green shooting-coat.
The soldier shook hands with him , sat down on the grass by his side , and stretched out his legs.
`` I see thou hast good boots on , which are well blacked ,"
said he to the huntsman ; `` but if thou hadst to travel about as I have , they would not last long.
Look at mine , they are of buffalo-leather , and have been worn for a long time , but in them I can go through thick and thin"
After a while the soldier got up and said , `` I can stay no longer , hunger drives me onwards ; but , Brother Bright-boots , where does this road lead to ?"
`` I do n't know that myself ,"
answered the huntsman , `` I have lost my way in the forest"
`` Then thou art in the same plight as I ,"
said the soldier ; `` birds of a feather flock together , let us remain together , and seek our way"
The huntsman smiled a little , and they walked on further and further , until night fell.
`` We do not get out of the forest ,"
said the soldier , `` but there in the distance I see a light shining , which will help us to something to eat"
They found a stone house , knocked at the door , and an old woman opened it.
`` We are looking for quarters for the night ,"
said the soldier , `` and some lining for our stomachs , for mine is as empty as an old knapsack"
`` You can not stay here ,"
answered the old woman ; `` this is a robber 's house , and you would do wisely to get away before they come home , or you will be lost"
`` It wo n't be so bad as that ,"
answered the soldier , `` I have not had a mouthful for two days , and whether I am murdered here or die of hunger in the forest is all the same to me.
I shall go in"
The huntsman would not follow , but the soldier drew him in with him by the sleeve.
`` Come , my dear brother , we shall not come to an end so quickly as that !"
The old woman had pity on them and said , `` Creep in here behind the stove , and if they leave anything , I will give it to you on the sly when they are asleep"
Scarcely were they in the corner before twelve robbers came bursting in , seated themselves at the table which was already laid , and vehemently demanded some food.
The old woman brought in some great dishes of roast meat , and the robbers enjoyed that thoroughly.
When the smell of the food ascended the nostrils of the soldier , he said to the huntsman , `` I can not hold out any longer , I shall seat myself at the table , and eat with them"
`` Thou wilt bring us to destruction ,"
said the huntsman , and held him back by the arm.
But the soldier began to cough loudly.
When the robbers heard that , they threw away their knives and forks , leapt up , and discovered the two who were behind the stove.
`` Aha , gentlemen , are you in the corner ?"
cried they , `` What are you doing here ? Have you been sent as spies ? Wait a while , and you shall learn how to fly on a dry bough"
`` But do be civil ,"
said the soldier , `` I am hungry , give me something to eat , and then you can do what you like with me"
The robbers were astonished , and the captain said , `` I see that thou hast no fear ; well , thou shalt have some food , but after that thou must die"
`` We shall see ,"
said the soldier , and seated himself at the table , and began to cut away valiantly at the roast meat.
`` Brother Brightboots , come and eat ,"
cried he to the huntsman ; `` thou must be as hungry as I am , and can not have better roast meat at home ,"
but the huntsman would not eat.
The robbers looked at the soldier in astonishment , and said , `` The rascal uses no ceremony"
After a while he said , `` I have had enough food , now get me something good to drink"
The captain was in the mood to humor him in this also , and called to the old woman , `` Bring a bottle out of the cellar , and mind it be of the best"
The soldier drew the cork out with a loud noise , and then went with the bottle to the huntsman and said , `` Pay attention , brother , and thou shalt see something that will surprise thee ; I am now going to drink the health of the whole clan"
Then he brandished the bottle over the heads of the robbers , and cried , `` Long life to you all , but with your mouths open and your right hands lifted up ,"
and then he drank a hearty draught.
Scarcely were the words said than they all sat motionless as if made of stone , and their mouths were open and their right hands stretched up in the air.
The huntsman said to the soldier , `` I see that thou art acquainted with tricks of another kind , but now come and let us go home"
`` Oho , my dear brother , but that would be marching away far too soon ; we have conquered the enemy , and must first take the booty.
Those men there are sitting fast , and are opening their mouths with astonishment , but they will not be allowed to move until I permit them.
Come , eat and drink"
The old woman had to bring another bottle of the best wine , and the soldier would not stir until he had eaten enough to last for three days.
At last when day came , he said , `` Now it is time to strike our tents , and that our march may be a short one , the old woman shall show us the nearest way to the town"
When they had arrived there , he went to his old comrades , and said , `` Out in the forest I have found a nest full of gallows ' birds , come with me and we will take it"
The soldier led them , and said to the huntsman , `` Thou must go back again with me to see how they shake when we seize them by the feet"
He placed the men round about the robbers , and then he took the bottle , drank a mouthful , brandished it above them , and cried , `` Live again"
Instantly they all regained the power of movement , but were thrown down and bound hand and foot with cords.
Then the soldier ordered them to be thrown into a cart as if they had been so many sacks , and said , `` Now drive them straight to prison"
The huntsman , however , took one of the men aside and gave him another commission besides.
`` Brother Bright-boots ,"
said the soldier , `` we have safely routed the enemy and been well fed , now we will quietly walk behind them as if we were stragglers !"
When they approached the town , the soldier saw a crowd of people pouring through the gate of the town who were raising loud cries of joy , and waving green boughs in the air.
Then he saw that the entire body-guard was coming up.
`` What can this mean ?"
said he to the huntsman.
`` Dost thou not know ?"
he replied , `` that the King has for a long time been absent from his kingdom , and that to-day he is returning , and every one is going to meet him"
`` But where is the King ?"
said the soldier , `` I do not see him"
`` Here he is ,"
answered the huntsman , `` I am the King , and have announced my arrival"
Then he opened his hunting-coat , and his royal garments were visible.
The soldier was alarmed , and fell on his knees and begged him to forgive him for having in his ignorance treated him as an equal , and spoken to him by such a name.
But the King shook hands with him , and said , `` Thou art a brave soldier , and hast saved my life.
Thou shalt never again be in want , I will take care of thee.
And if ever thou wouldst like to eat a piece of roast meat , as good as that in the robber 's house , come to the royal kitchen.
But if thou wouldst drink a health , thou must first ask my permission"
THERE was once a countryman who had money and land in plenty , but how rich soever he was , one thing was still wanting in his happiness he had no children.
Often when he went into the town with the other peasants they mocked him and asked why he had no children.
At last he became angry , and when he got home he said , `` I will have a child , even if it be a hedgehog"
Then his wife had a child , that was a hedgehog in the upper part of his body , and a boy in the lower , and when she saw the child , she was terrified , and said , `` See , there thou hast brought ill-luck on us"
Then said the man , `` What can be done now ? The boy must be christened , but we shall not be able to get a godfather for him"
The woman said , `` And we can not call him anything else but Hans the person_0"
When he was christened , the parson said , `` He can not go into any ordinary bed because of his spikes"
So a little straw was put behind the stove , and Hans the person_0 was laid on it.
His mother could not suckle him , for he would have pricked her with his quills.
So he lay there behind the stove for eight years , and his father was tired of him and thought , `` If he would but die !"
He did not die , however , but remained lying there.
Now it happened that there was a fair in the town , and the peasant was about to go to it , and asked his wife what he should bring back with him for her.
`` A little meat and a couple of white rolls which are wanted for the house ,"
said she.
Then he asked the servant , and she wanted a pair of slippers and some stockings with clocks.
At last he said also , `` And what wilt thou have , Hans my person_0 ?"
`` Dear father ,"
he said , `` do bring me bagpipes"
When , therefore , the father came home again , he gave his wife what he had bought for her ; meat and white rolls , and then he gave the maid the slippers , and the stockings with clocks ; and , lastly , he went behind the stove , and gave Hans the person_0 the bagpipes.
And when Hans the person_0 had the bagpipes , he said , `` Dear father , do go to the forge and get the cock shod , and then I will ride away , and never come back again"
On this , the father was delighted to think that he was going to get rid of him , and had the cock shod for him , and when it was done , Hans the person_0 got on it , and rode away , but took swine and asses with him which he intended to keep in the forest.
When they got there he made the cock fly on to a high tree with him , and there he sat for many a long year , and watched his asses and swine until the herd was quite large , and his father knew nothing about him.
While he was sitting in the tree , however , he played his bagpipes , and made music which was very beautiful.
Once a King came traveling by who had lost his way and heard the music.
He was astonished at it , and sent his servant forth to look all round and see from whence this music came.
He spied about , but saw nothing but a little animal sitting up aloft on the tree , which looked like a cock with a hedgehog on it which made this music.
Then the King told the servant he was to ask why he sat there , and if he knew the road which led to his kingdom.
So Hans the person_0 descended from the tree , and said he would show the way if the King would write a bond and promise him whatever he first met in the royal courtyard as soon as he arrived at home.
Then the King thought , `` I can easily do that , Hans the person_0 understands nothing , and I can write what I like"
So the King took pen and ink and wrote something , and when he had done it , Hans the person_0 showed him the way , and he got safely home.
But his daughter , when she saw him from afar , was so overjoyed that she ran to meet him , and kissed him.
Then he remembered Hans the person_0 , and told her what had happened , and that he had been forced to promise whatsoever first met him when he got home , to a very strange animal which sat on a cock as if it were a horse , and made beautiful music , but that instead of writing that he should have what he wanted , he had written that he should not have it.
Thereupon the princess was glad , and said he had done well , for she never would have gone away with the person_0.
Hans the person_0 , however , looked after his asses and pigs , and was always merry and sat on the tree and played his bagpipes.
Now it came to pass that another King came journeying by with his attendants and runners , and he also had lost his way , and did not know how to get home again because the forest was so large.
He likewise heard the beautiful music from a distance , and asked his runner what that could be , and told him to go and see.
Then the runner went under the tree , and saw the cock sitting at the top of it , and Hans the person_0 on the cock.
The runner asked him what he was about up there ? `` I am keeping my asses and my pigs ; but what is your desire ?"
The messenger said that they had lost their way , and could not get back into their own kingdom , and asked if he would not show them the way.
Then Hans the person_0 got down the tree with the cock , and told the aged King that he would show him the way , if he would give him for his own whatsoever first met him in front of his royal palace.
The King said , `` Yes ,"
and wrote a promise to Hans the person_0 that he should have this.
That done , Hans rode on before him on the cock , and pointed out the way , and the King reached his kingdom again in safety.
When he got to the courtyard , there were great rejoicings.
Now he had an only daughter who was very beautiful ; she ran to meet him , threw her arms round his neck , and was delighted to have her old father back again.
She asked him where in the world he had been so long.
So he told her how he had lost his way , and had very nearly not come back at all , but that as he was traveling through a great forest , a creature , half hedgehog , half man , who was sitting astride a cock in a high tree , and making music , had shown him the way and helped him to get out , but that in return he had promised him whatsoever first met him in the royal court-yard , and how that was she herself , which made him unhappy now.
But on this she promised that , for love of her father , she would willingly go with this Hans if he came.
Hans the person_0 , however , took care of his pigs , and the pigs multiplied until they became so many in number that the whole forest was filled with them.
Then Hans the person_0 resolved not to live in the forest any longer , and sent word to his father to have every stye in the village emptied , for he was coming with such a great herd that all might kill who wished to do so.
When his father heard that , he was troubled , for he thought Hans the person_0 had died long ago.
Hans the person_0 , however , seated himself on the cock , and drove the pigs before him into the village , and ordered the slaughter to begin.
Ha ! but there was a killing and a chopping that might have been heard two miles off ! After this Hans the person_0 said , `` Father , let me have the cock shod once more at the forge , and then I will ride away and never come back as long as I live"
Then the father had the cock shod once more , and was pleased that Hans the person_0 would never return again.
Hans the person_0 rode away to the first kingdom.
There the King had commanded that whosoever came mounted on a cock and had bagpipes with him should be shot at , cut down , or stabbed by everyone , so that he might not enter the palace.
When , therefore , Hans the person_0 came riding thither , they all pressed forward against him with their pikes , but he spurred the cock and it flew up over the gate in front of the King 's window and lighted there , and Hans cried that the King must give him what he had promised , or he would take both his life and his daughter 's.
Then the King began to speak his daughter fair , and to beg her to go away with Hans in order to save her own life and her father 's.
So she dressed herself in white , and her father gave her a carriage with six horses and magnificent attendants together with gold and possessions.
She seated herself in the carriage , and placed Hans the person_0 beside her with the cock and the bagpipes , and then they took leave and drove away , and the King thought he should never see her again.
He was however , deceived in his expectation , for when they were at a short distance from the town , Hans the person_0 took her pretty clothes off , and pierced her with his hedgehog 's skin until she bled all over.
`` That is the reward of your falseness ,"
said he , `` go your way , I will not have you !"
and on that he chased her home again , and she was disgraced for the rest of her life.
Hans the person_0 , however , rode on further on the cock , with his bagpipes , to the dominions of the second King to whom he had shown the way.
This one , however , had arranged that if any one resembling Hans the person_0 should come , they were to present arms , give him safe conduct , cry long life to him , and lead him to the royal palace.
But when the King 's daughter saw him she was terrified , for he looked quite too strange.
She remembered however , that she could not change her mind , for she had given her promise to her father.
So Hans the person_0 was welcomed by her , and married to her , and had to go with her to the royal table , and she seated herself by his side , and they ate and drank.
When the evening came and they wanted to go to sleep , she was afraid of his quills , but he told her she was not to fear , for no harm would befall her , and he told the old King that he was to appoint four men to watch by the door of the chamber , and light a great fire , and when he entered the room and was about to get into bed , he would creep out of his hedgehog 's skin and leave it lying there by the bedside , and that the men were to run nimbly to it , throw it in the fire , and stay by it until it was consumed.
When the clock struck eleven , he went into the chamber , stripped off the hedgehog 's skin , and left it lying by the bed.
Then came the men and fetched it swiftly , and threw it in the fire ; and when the fire had consumed it , he was delivered , and lay there in bed in human form , but he was coal-black as if he had been burnt.
The King sent for his physician who washed him with precious salves , and anointed him , and he became white , and was a handsome young man.
When the King 's daughter saw that she was glad , and the next morning they arose joyfully , ate and drank , and then the marriage was properly solemnized , and Hans the person_0 received the kingdom from the aged King.
When several years had passed he went with his wife to his father , and said that he was his son.
The father , however , declared he had no son he had never had but one , and he had been born like a hedgehog with spikes , and had gone forth into the world.
Then Hans made himself known , and the old father rejoiced and went with him to his kingdom.
My tale is done , And away it has run To little August 's house"
There was once a poor shepherd-boy whose father and mother were dead , and he was placed by the authorities in the house of a rich man , who was to feed him and bring him up.
The man and his wife , had however , bad hearts , and were greedy and anxious about their riches , and vexed whenever any one put a morsel of their bread in his mouth.
The poor young fellow might do what he liked , he got little to eat , but only so many blows the more.
One day he had to watch a hen and her chickens , but she ran through a quick-set hedge with them , and a hawk darted down instantly , and carried her off through the air.
The boy called , `` Thief ! thief ! rascal !"
with all the strength of his body.
But what good did that do ? The hawk did not bring its prey back again.
The man heard the noise , and ran to the spot , and as soon as he saw that his hen was gone , he fell in a rage , and gave the boy such a beating that he could not stir for two days.
Then he had to take care of the chickens without the hen , but now his difficulty was greater , for one ran here and the other there.
He thought he was doing a very wise thing when he tied them all together with a string , because then the hawk would not be able to steal any of them away from him.
But he was very much mistaken.
After two days , worn out with running about and hunger , he fell asleep ; the bird of prey came , and seized one of the chickens , and as the others were tied fast to it , it carried them all off together , perched itself on a tree , and devoured them.
The farmer was just coming home , and when he saw the misfortune , he got angry and beat the boy so unmercifully that he was forced to lie in bed for several days.
When he was on his legs again , the farmer said to him , `` Thou art too stupid for me , I can not make a herdsman of thee , thou must go as errand-boy"
Then he sent him to the judge , to whom he was to carry a basketful of grapes , and he gave him a letter as well.
On the way hunger and thirst tormented the unhappy boy so violently that he ate two of the bunches of grapes.
He took the basket to the judge , but when the judge had read the letter , and counted the bunches he said , `` Two clusters are wanting"
The boy confessed quite honestly that , driven by hunger and thirst , he had devoured the two which were wanting.
The judge wrote a letter to the farmer , and asked for the same number of grapes again.
These also the boy had to take to him with a letter.
As he again was so extremely hungry and thirsty , he could not help it , and again ate two bunches.
But first he took the letter out of the basket , put it under a stone and seated himself thereon in order that the letter might not see and betray him.
The judge , however , again made him give an explanation about the missing bunches.
`` Ah ,"
said the boy , `` how have you learned that ? The letter could not know about it , for I put it under a stone before I did it"
The judge could not help laughing at the boy 's simplicity , and sent the man a letter wherein he cautioned him to keep the poor boy better , and not let him want for meat and drink , and also that he was to teach him what was right and what was wrong.
`` I will soon show thee the difference ,"
said the hard man , `` if thou wilt eat , thou must work , and if thou dost anything wrong , thou shalt be quite sufficiently taught by blows"
The next day he set him a hard task.
He was to chop two bundles of straw for food for the horses , and then the man threatened : `` In five hours ,"
said he , `` I shall be back again , and if the straw is not cut to chaff by that time , I will beat thee until thou canst not move a limb"
The farmer went with his wife , the man-servant and the girl , to the yearly fair , and left nothing behind for the boy but a small bit of bread.
The boy seated himself on the bench , and began to work with all his might.
As he got warm over it he put his little coat off and threw it on the straw.
In his terror lest he should not get done in time he kept constantly cutting , and in his haste , without noticing it , he chopped his little coat as well as the straw.
He became aware of the misfortune too late ; there was no repairing it.
`` Ah ,"
cried he , `` now all is over with me ! The wicked man did not threaten me for nothing ; if he comes back and sees what I have done , he will kill me.
Rather than that I will take my own life"
The boy had once heard the farmer 's wife say , `` I have a pot with poison in it under my bed"
She , however , had only said that to keep away greedy people , for there was honey in it.
The boy crept under the bed , brought out the pot , and ate all that was in it.
`` I do not know ,"
said he , `` folks say death is bitter , but it tastes very sweet to me.
It is no wonder that the farmer 's wife has so often longed for death"
He seated himself in a little chair , and was prepared to die.
But instead of becoming weaker he felt himself strengthened by the nourishing food.
`` It can not have been poison ,"
thought he , `` but the farmer once said there was a small bottle of poison for flies in the box in which he keeps his clothes ; that , no doubt , will be the true poison , and bring death to me"
It was , however , no poison for flies , but Hungarian wine.
The boy got out the bottle , and emptied it.
`` This death tastes sweet too ,"
said he , but shortly after when the wine began to mount into his brain and stupefy him , he thought his end was drawing near.
`` I feel that I must die ,"
said he , `` I will go away to the churchyard , and seek a grave"
He staggered out , reached the churchyard , and laid himself in a newly dug grave.
He lost his senses more and more.
In the neighborhood was an inn where a wedding was being kept ; when he heard the music , he fancied he was already in Paradise , until at length he lost all consciousness.
The poor boy never awoke again ; the heat of the strong wine and the cold night-dew deprived him of life , and he remained in the grave in which he had laid himself.
When the farmer heard the news of the boy 's death he was terrified , and afraid of being brought to justice indeed , his distress took such a powerful hold of him that he fell fainting to the ground.
His wife , who was standing on the hearth with a pan of hot fat , ran to him to help him.
But the flames darted against the pan , the whole house caught fire , in a few hours it lay in ashes , and the rest of the years they had to live they passed in poverty and misery , tormented by the pangs of conscience"
Once upon a time , a certain King was hunting in a great forest , and he chased a wild beast so eagerly that none of his attendants could follow him.
When evening drew near he stopped and looked around him , and then he saw that he had lost his way.
He sought a way out , but could find none.
Then he perceived an aged woman with a head which nodded perpetually , who came towards him , but she was a witch.
`` Good woman ,"
said he to her , `` Can you not show me the way through the forest ?"
`` Oh , yes , Lord King ,"
she answered , `` that I certainly can , but on one condition , and if you do not fulfil that , you will never get out of the forest , and will die of hunger in it"
`` What kind of condition is it ?"
asked the King.
`` I have a daughter ,"
said the old woman , `` who is as beautiful as any one in the world , and well deserves to be your consort , and if you will make her your Queen , I will show you the way out of the forest"
In the anguish of his heart the King consented , and the old woman led him to her little hut , where her daughter was sitting by the fire.
She received the King as if she had been expecting him , and he saw that she was very beautiful , but still she did not please him , and he could not look at her without secret horror.
After he had taken the maiden up on his horse , the old woman showed him the way , and the King reached his royal palace again , where the wedding was celebrated.
The King had already been married once , and had by his first wife , seven children , six boys and a girl , whom he loved better than anything else in the world.
As he now feared that the step-mother might not treat them well , and even do them some injury , he took them to a lonely castle which stood in the midst of a forest.
It lay so concealed , and the way was so difficult to find that he himself would not have found it , if a wise woman had not given him a ball of yarn with wonderful properties.
When he threw it down before him , it unrolled itself and showed him his path.
The King , however , went so frequently away to his dear children that the Queen observed his absence ; she was curious and wanted to know what he did when he was quite alone in the forest.
She gave a great deal of money to his servants , and they betrayed the secret to her , and told her likewise of the ball which alone could point out the way.
And now she knew no rest until she had learned where the King kept the ball of yarn , and then she made little shirts of white silk , and as she had learned the art of witchcraft from her mother , she sewed a charm inside them.
And once when the King had ridden forth to hunt , she took the little shirts and went into the forest , and the ball showed her the way.
The children , who saw from a distance that some one was approaching , thought that their dear father was coming to them , and full of joy , ran to meet him.
Then she threw one of the little shirts over each of them , and no sooner had the shirts touched their bodies than they were changed into swans , and flew away over the forest.
The Queen went home quite delighted , and thought she had got rid of her step-children , but the girl had not run out with her brothers , and the Queen knew nothing about her.
Next day the King went to visit his children , but he found no one but the little girl.
`` Where are thy brothers ?"
asked the King.
`` Alas , dear father ,"
she answered , `` they have gone away and left me alone !"
and she told him that she had seen from her little window how her brothers had flown away over the forest in the shape of swans , and she showed him the feathers , which they had let fall in the courtyard , and which she had picked up.
The King mourned , but he did not think that the Queen had done this wicked deed , and as he feared that the girl would also be stolen away from him , he wanted to take her away with him.
But she was afraid of her step-mother , and entreated the King to let her stay just this one night more in the forest castle.
The poor girl thought , `` I can no longer stay here.
I will go and seek my brothers"
And when night came , she ran away , and went straight into the forest.
She walked the whole night long , and next day also without stopping , until she could go no farther for weariness.
Then she saw a forest-hut , and went into it , and found a room with six little beds , but she did not venture to get into one of them , but crept under one , and lay down on the hard ground , intending to pass the night there.
Just before sunset , however , she heard a rustling , and saw six swans come flying in at the window.
They alighted on the ground and blew at each other , and blew all the feathers off , and their swan 's skins stripped off like a shirt.
Then the maiden looked at them and recognized her brothers , was glad and crept forth from beneath the bed.
The brothers were not less delighted to see their little sister , but their joy was of short duration.
`` Here canst thou not abide ,"
they said to her.
`` This is a shelter for robbers , if they come home and find thee , they will kill thee"
`` But can you not protect me ?"
asked the little sister.
`` No ,"
they replied , `` only for one quarter of an hour each evening can we lay aside our swan 's skins and have during that time our human form ; after that , we are once more turned into swans"
The little sister wept and said , `` Can you not be set free ?"
`` Alas , no ,"
they answered , `` the conditions are too hard ! For six years thou mayst neither speak nor laugh , and in that time thou must sew together six little shirts of starwort for us.
And if one single word falls from thy lips , all thy work will be lost"
And when the brothers had said this , the quarter of an hour was over , and they flew out of the window again as swans.
The maiden , however , firmly resolved to deliver her brothers , even if it should cost her her life.
She left the hut , went into the midst of the forest , seated herself on a tree , and there passed the night.
Next morning she went out and gathered starwort and began to sew.
She could not speak to any one , and she had no inclination to laugh ; she sat there and looked at nothing but her work.
When she had already spent a long time there it came to pass that the King of the country was hunting in the forest , and his huntsmen came to the tree on which the maiden was sitting.
They called to her and said , `` Who art thou ?"
But she made no answer.
`` Come down to us ,"
said they.
`` We will not do thee any harm"
She only shook her head.
As they pressed her further with questions she threw her golden necklace down to them , and thought to content them thus.
They , however , did not cease , and then she threw her girdle down to them , and as this also was to no purpose , her garters , and by degrees everything that she had on that she could do without until she had nothing left but her shift.
The huntsmen , however , did not let themselves be turned aside by that , but climbed the tree and fetched the maiden down and led her before the King.
The King asked , `` Who art thou ? What art thou doing on the tree ?"
But she did not answer.
He put the question in every language that he knew , but she remained as mute as a fish.
As she was so beautiful , the King 's heart was touched , and he was smitten with a great love for her.
He put his mantle on her , took her before him on his horse , and carried her to his castle.
Then he caused her to be dressed in rich garments , and she shone in her beauty like bright daylight , but no word could be drawn from her.
He placed her by his side at table , and her modest bearing and courtesy pleased him so much that he said , `` She is the one whom I wish to marry , and no other woman in the world"
And after some days he united himself to her.
The King , however , had a wicked mother who was dissatisfied with this marriage and spoke ill of the young Queen.
`` Who knows ,"
said she , `` from whence the creature who ca n't speak , comes ? She is not worthy of a king !"
After a year had passed , when the Queen brought her first child into the world , the old woman took it away from her , and smeared her mouth with blood as she slept.
Then she went to the King and accused the Queen of being a man-eater.
The King would not believe it , and would not suffer any one to do her any injury.
She , however , sat continually sewing at the shirts , and cared for nothing else.
The next time , when she again bore a beautiful boy , the false step-mother used the same treachery , but the King could not bring himself to give credit to her words.
He said , `` She is too pious and good to do anything of that kind ; if she were not dumb , and could defend herself , her innocence would come to light"
But when the old woman stole away the newly-born child for the third time , and accused the Queen , who did not utter one word of defense , the King could do no otherwise than deliver her over to justice , and she was sentenced to suffer death by fire.
When the day came for the sentence to be executed , it was the last day of the six years during which she was not to speak or laugh , and she had delivered her dear brothers from the power of the enchantment.
The six shirts were ready , only the left sleeve of the sixth was wanting.
When , therefore , she was led to the stake , she laid the shirts on her arm , and when she stood on high and the fire was just going to be lighted , she looked around and six swans came flying through the air towards her.
Then she saw that her deliverance was near , and her heart leapt with joy.
The swans swept towards her and sank down so that she could throw the shirts over them , and as they were touched by them , their swan 's skins fell off , and her brothers stood in their own bodily form before her , and were vigorous and handsome.
The youngest only lacked his left arm , and had in the place of it a swan 's wing on his shoulder.
They embraced and kissed each other , and the Queen went to the King , who was greatly moved , and she began to speak and said , `` Dearest husband , now I may speak and declare to thee that I am innocent , and falsely accused"
And she told him of the treachery of the old woman who had taken away her three children and hidden them.
Then to the great joy of the King they were brought thither , and as a punishment , the wicked step-mother was bound to the stake , and burnt to ashes.
But the King and the Queen with their six brothers lived many years in happiness and peace"
There was once on a time a person_0 who had a little boy of whom it had been foretold that he should be killed by a stag when he was sixteen years of age , and when he had reached that age the huntsmen once went hunting with him.
In the forest , the person_0 's son was separated from the others , and all at once he saw a great stag which he wanted to shoot , but could not hit.
At length he chased the stag so far that they were quite out of the forest , and then suddenly a great tall man was standing there instead of the stag , and said , `` It is well that I have thee.
I have already ruined six pairs of glass skates with running after thee , and have not been able to get thee"
Then he took the person_0 's son with him , and dragged him through a great lake to a great palace , and then he had to sit down to table with him and eat something.
When they had eaten something together the person_0 said , `` I have three daughters , thou must keep watch over the eldest for one night , from nine in the evening till six in the morning , and every time the clock strikes , I will come myself and call , and if thou then givest me no answer , to-morrow morning thou shall be put to death , but if thou always givest me an answer , thou shalt have her to wife"
When the young folks went to the bed-room there stood a stone image of St.
Christopher , and the person_0 's daughter said to it , `` My father will come at nine o'clock , and every hour till it strikes three ; when he calls , give him an answer instead of the person_0 's son"
Then the stone image of St.
Christopher nodded its head quite quickly , and then more and more slowly till at last it stood still.
The next morning the person_0 said to him , `` Thou hast done the business well , but I can not give my daughter away.
Thou must now watch a night by my second daughter , and then I will consider with myself , whether thou canst have my eldest daughter to wife , but I shall come every hour myself , and when I call thee , answer me , and if I call thee and thou dost not reply , thy blood shall flow"
Then they both went into the sleeping-room , and there stood a still larger stone image of St.
Christopher , and the person_0 's daughter said to it , `` If my father calls , do you answer him"
Then the great stone image of St.
Christopher again nodded its head quite quickly and then more and more slowly , until at last it stood still again.
And the person_0 's son lay down on the threshold , put his hand under his head and slept.
The next morning the person_0 said to him , `` Thou hast done the business really well , but I can not give my daughter away ; thou must now watch a night by the youngest princess , and then I will consider with myself whether thou canst have my second daughter to wife , but I shall come every hour myself , and when I call thee answer me , and if I call thee and thou answerest not , thy blood shall flow for me"
Then they once more went to the sleeping-room together , and there was a much greater and much taller image of St.
Christopher than the two first had been.
The person_0 's daughter said to it , `` When my father calls , do thou answer"
Then the great tall stone image of St.
Christopher nodded quite half an hour with its head , until at length the head stood still again.
And the person_0 's son laid himself down on the threshold of the door and slept.
The next morning the person_0 said , `` Thou hast indeed watched well , but I can not give thee my daughter now ; I have a great forest , if thou cuttest it down for me between six o'clock this morning and six at night , I will think about it"
Then he gave him a glass axe , a glass wedge , and a glass mallet.
When he got into the wood , he began at once to cut , but the axe broke in two , then he took the wedge , and struck it once with the mallet , and it became as short and as small as sand.
Then he was much troubled and believed he would have to die , and sat down and wept.
Now when it was noon the person_0 said , `` One of you girls must take him something to eat"
`` No ,"
said the two eldest , `` We will not take it to him ; the one by whom he last watched , can take him something"
Then the youngest was forced to go and take him something to eat.
When she got into the forest , she asked him how he was getting on ? `` Oh ,"
said he , `` I am getting on very badly"
Then she said he was to come and just eat a little.
`` Nay ,"
said he , `` I can not do that , I shall still have to die , so I will eat no more"
Then she spoke so kindly to him and begged him just to try , that he came and ate something.
When he had eaten something she said , `` I will comb thy hair a while , and then thou wilt feel happier"
So she combed his hair , and he became weary and fell asleep , and then she took her handkerchief and made a knot in it , and struck it three times on the earth , and said , `` Earth-workers , come forth"
In a moment , numbers of little earth-men came forth , and asked what the person_0 's daughter commanded ? Then said she , `` In three hours ' time the great forest must be cut down , and the whole of the wood laid in heaps"
So the little earth-men went about and got together the whole of their kindred to help them with the work.
They began at once , and when the three hours were over , all was done , and they came back to the person_0 's daughter and told her so.
Then she took her white handkerchief again and said , `` Earth-workers , go home"
On this they all disappeared.
When the person_0 's son awoke , he was delighted , and she said , `` Come home when it has struck six o'clock"
He did as she told him , and then the person_0 asked , `` Hast thou made away with the forest ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the person_0 's son.
When they were sitting at table , the person_0 said , `` I can not yet give thee my daughter to wife , thou must still do something more for her sake"
So he asked what it was to be , then ? `` I have a great fish-pond ,"
said the person_0.
`` Thou must go to it to-morrow morning and clear it of all mud until it is as bright as a mirror , and fill it with every kind of fish"
The next morning the person_0 gave him a glass shovel and said , `` The fish-pond must be done by six o'clock"
So he went away , and when he came to the fish-pond he stuck his shovel in the mud and it broke in two , then he stuck his hoe in the mud , and broke it also.
Then he was much troubled.
At noon the youngest daughter brought him something to eat , and asked him how he was getting on ? So the person_0 's son said everything was going very ill with him , and he would certainly have to lose his head.
`` My tools have broken to pieces again"
`` Oh ,"
said she , `` thou must just come and eat something , and then thou wilt be in another frame of mind"
`` No ,"
said he , `` I can not eat , I am far too unhappy for that !"
Then she gave him many good words until at last he came and ate something.
Then she combed his hair again , and he fell asleep , so once more she took her handkerchief , tied a knot in it , and struck the ground thrice with the knot , and said , `` Earth-workers , come forth"
In a moment a great many little earth-men came and asked what she desired , and she told them that in three hours ' time , they must have the fish-pond entirely cleaned out , and it must be so clear that people could see themselves reflected in it , and every kind of fish must be in it.
The little earth-men went away and summoned all their kindred to help them , and in two hours it was done.
Then they returned to her and said , `` We have done as thou hast commanded"
The person_0 's daughter took the handkerchief and once more struck thrice on the ground with it , and said , `` Earth-workers , go home again"
Then they all went away.
When the person_0 's son awoke the fish-pond was done.
Then the person_0 's daughter went away also , and told him that when it was six he was to come to the house.
When he arrived at the house the person_0 asked , `` Hast thou got the fish-pond done ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the person_0 's son.
That was very good.
When they were again sitting at table the person_0 said , `` Thou hast certainly done the fish-pond , but I can not give thee my daughter yet ; thou must just do one thing more"
`` What is that , then ?"
asked the person_0 's son.
The person_0 said he had a great mountain on which there was nothing but briars which must all be cut down , and at the top of it the youth must build up a great castle , which must be as strong as could be conceived , and all the furniture and fittings belonging to a castle must be inside it.
And when he arose next morning the person_0 gave him a glass axe and a glass gimlet with him , and he was to have all done by six o'clock.
As he was cutting down the first briar with the axe , it broke off short , and so small that the pieces flew all round about , and he could not use the gimlet either.
Then he was quite miserable , and waited for his dearest to see if she would not come and help him in his need.
When it was mid-day she came and brought him something to eat.
He went to meet her and told her all , and ate something , and let her comb his hair and fell asleep.
Then she once more took the knot and struck the earth with it , and said , `` Earth-workers , come forth !"
Then came once again numbers of earth-men , and asked what her desire was.
Then said she , `` In the space of three hours they must cut down the whole of the briars , and a castle must be built on the top of the mountain that must be as strong as any one could conceive , and all the furniture that pertains to a castle must be inside it"
They went away , and summoned their kindred to help them and when the time was come , all was ready.
Then they came to the person_0 's daughter and told her so , and the person_0 's daughter took her handkerchief and struck thrice on the earth with it , and said , `` Earth-workers , go home ,"
on which they all disappeared.
When therefore the person_0 's son awoke and saw everything done , he was as happy as a bird in air.
When it had struck six , they went home together.
Then said the person_0 , `` Is the castle ready ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the person_0 's son.
When they sat down to table , the person_0 said , `` I can not give away my youngest daughter until the two eldest are married"
Then the person_0 's son and the person_0 's daughter were quite troubled , and the person_0 's son had no idea what to do.
But he went by night to the person_0 's daughter and ran away with her.
When they had got a little distance away , the person_0 's daughter peeped round and saw her father behind her.
`` Oh ,"
said she , `` what are we to do ? My father is behind us , and will take us back with him.
I will at once change thee into a briar , and myself into a rose , and I will shelter myself in the midst of the bush"
When the father reached the place , there stood a briar with one rose on it , then he was about to gather the rose , when the thorn came and pricked his finger so that he was forced to go home again.
His wife asked why he had not brought their daughter back with him ? So he said he had nearly got up to her , but that all at once he had lost sight of her , and a briar with one rose was growing on the spot.
Then said the Queen , `` If thou hadst but gathered the rose , the briar would have been forced to come too"
So he went back again to fetch the rose , but in the meantime the two were already far over the plain , and the person_0 ran after them.
Then the daughter once more looked round and saw her father coming , and said , `` Oh , what shall we do now ? I will instantly change thee into a church and myself into a priest , and I will stand up in the pulpit , and preach"
When the person_0 got to the place , there stood a church , and in the pulpit was a priest preaching.
So he listened to the sermon , and then went home again.
Then the Queen asked why he had not brought their daughter with him , and he said , `` Nay , I ran a long time after her , and just as I thought I should soon overtake her , a church was standing there and a priest was in the pulpit preaching"
`` Thou shouldst just have brought the priest ,"
said his wife , `` and then the church would soon have come.
It is no use to send thee , I must go there myself"
When she had walked for some time , and could see the two in the distance , the person_0 's daughter peeped round and saw her mother coming , and said , `` Now we are undone , for my mother is coming herself : I will immediately change thee into a fish-pond and myself into a fish.
When the mother came to the place , there was a large fish-pond , and in the midst of it a fish was leaping about and peeping out of the water , and it was quite merry.
She wanted to catch the fish , but she could not.
Then she was very angry , and drank up the whole pond in order to catch the fish , but it made her so ill that she was forced to vomit , and vomited the whole pond out again.
Then she cried , `` I see very well that nothing can be done now ,"
and said that now they might come back to her.
Then the person_0 's daughter went back again , and the Queen gave her daughter three walnuts , and said , `` With these thou canst help thyself when thou art in thy greatest need"
So the young folks went once more away together.
And when they had walked quite ten miles , they arrived at the castle from whence the person_0 's son came , and close by it was a village.
When they reached it , the person_0 's son said , `` Stay here , my dearest , I will just go to the castle , and then will I come with a carriage and with attendants to fetch thee"
When he got to the castle they all rejoiced greatly at having the person_0 's son back again , and he told them he had a bride who was now in the village , and they must go with the carriage to fetch her.
Then they harnessed the horses at once , and many attendants seated themselves outside the carriage.
When the person_0 's son was about to get in , his mother gave him a kiss , and he forgot everything which had happened , and also what he was about to do.
On this his mother ordered the horses to be taken out of the carriage again , and everyone went back into the house.
But the maiden sat in the village and watched and watched , and thought he would come and fetch her , but no one came.
Then the person_0 's daughter took service in the mill which belonged to the castle , and was obliged to sit by the pond every afternoon and clean the tubs.
And the Queen came one day on foot from the castle , and went walking by the pond , and saw the well-grown maiden sitting there , and said , `` What a fine strong girl that is ! She pleases me well !"
Then she and all with her looked at the maid , but no one knew her.
So a long time passed by during which the maiden served the miller honorably and faithfully.
In the meantime , the Queen had sought a wife for her son , who came from quite a distant part of the world.
When the bride came , they were at once to be married.
And many people hurried together , all of whom wanted to see everything.
Then the girl said to the miller that he might be so good as to give her leave to go also.
So the miller said , `` Yes , do go there"
When she was about to go , she opened one of the three walnuts , and a beautiful dress lay inside it.
She put it on , and went into the church and stood by the altar.
Suddenly came the bride and bridegroom , and seated themselves before the altar , and when the priest was just going to bless them , the bride peeped half round and saw the maiden standing there.
Then she stood up again , and said she would not be given away until she also had as beautiful a dress as that lady there.
So they went back to the house again , and sent to ask the lady if she would sell that dress.
No , she would not sell it , but the bride might perhaps earn it.
Then the bride asked her how she was to do this ? Then the maiden said if she might sleep one night outside the person_0 's son 's door , the bride might have what she wanted.
So the bride said , `` Yes , she was willing to do that"
But the servants were ordered to give the person_0 's son a sleeping-drink , and then the maiden laid herself down on the threshold and lamented all night long.
She had had the forest cut down for him , she had had the fish-pond cleaned out for him , she had had the castle built for him , she had changed him into a briar , and then into a church , and at last into a fish-pond , and yet he had forgotten her so quickly.
The person_0 's son did not hear one word of it , but the servants had been awakened , and had listened to it , and had not known what it could mean.
The next morning when they were all up , the bride put on the dress , and went away to the church with the bridegroom.
In the meantime the maiden opened the second walnut , and a still more beautiful dress was inside it.
She put it on , and went and stood by the altar in the church , and everything happened as it had happened the time before.
And the maiden again lay all night on the threshold which led to the chamber of the person_0 's son , and the servant was once more to give him a sleeping-drink.
The servant , however , went to him and gave him something to keep him awake , and then the person_0 's son went to bed , and the miller 's maiden bemoaned herself as before on the threshold of the door , and told of all that she had done.
All this the person_0 's son heard , and was sore troubled , and what was past came back to him.
Then he wanted to go to her , but his mother had locked the door.
The next morning , however , he went at once to his beloved , and told her everything which had happened to him , and prayed her not to be angry with him for having forgotten her.
Then the person_0 's daughter opened the third walnut , and within it was a still more magnificent dress , which she put on , and went with her bridegroom to church , and numbers of children came who gave them flowers , and offered them gay ribbons to bind about their feet , and they were blessed by the priest , and had a merry wedding.
But the false mother and the bride had to depart.
And the mouth of the person who last told all this is still warm"
There was once on a time a Queen to whom God had given no children.
Every morning she went into the garden and prayed to God in heaven to bestow on her a son or a daughter.
Then an angel from heaven came to her and said , `` Be at rest , thou shalt have a son with the power of wishing , so that whatsoever in the world he wishes for , that shall he have"
Then she went to the King , and told him the joyful tidings , and when the time was come she gave birth to a son , and the King was filled with gladness.
Every morning she went with the child to the garden where the wild beasts were kept , and washed herself there in a clear stream.
It happened once when the child was a little older , that it was lying in her arms and she fell asleep.
Then came the old cook , who knew that the child had the power of wishing , and stole it away , and he took a hen , and cut it in pieces , and dropped some of its blood on the Queen 's apron and on her dress.
Then he carried the child away to a secret place , where a nurse was obliged to suckle it , and he ran to the King and accused the Queen of having allowed her child to be taken from her by the wild beasts.
When the King saw the blood on her apron , he believed this , fell into such a passion that he ordered a high tower to be built , in which neither sun nor moon could be seen , and had his wife put into it , and walled up.
Here she was to stay for seven years without meat or drink , and die of hunger.
But God sent two angels from heaven in the shape of white doves , which flew to her twice a day , and carried her food until the seven years were over.
The cook , however , thought to himself , `` If the child has the power of wishing , and I am here , he might very easily get me into trouble"
So he left the palace and went to the boy , who was already big enough to speak , and said to him , `` Wish for a beautiful palace for thyself with a garden , and all else that pertains to it"
Scarcely were the words out of the boy 's mouth , when everything was there that he had wished for.
After a while the cook said to him , `` It is not well for thee to be so alone , wish for a pretty girl as a companion"
Then the King 's son wished for one , and she immediately stood before him , and was more beautiful than any painter could have painted her.
The two played together , and loved each other with all their hearts , and the old cook went out hunting like a nobleman.
The thought , however , occurred to him that the King 's son might some day wish to be with his father , and thus bring him into great peril.
So he went out and took the maiden aside , and said , `` To-night when the boy is asleep , go to his bed and plunge this knife into his heart , and bring me his heart and tongue , and if thou dost not do it , thou shalt lose thy life"
Thereupon he went away , and when he returned next day she had not done it , and said , `` Why should I shed the blood of an innocent boy who has never harmed any one ?"
The cook once more said , `` If thou dost not do it , it shall cost thee thy own life"
When he had gone away , she had a little hind brought to her , and ordered her to be killed , and took her heart and tongue , and laid them on a plate , and when she saw the old man coming , she said to the boy , `` Lie down in thy bed , and draw the clothes over thee"
Then the wicked wretch came in and said , `` Where are the boy 's heart and tongue ?"
The girl reached the plate to him , but the King 's son threw off the quilt , and said , `` Thou old sinner , why didst thou want to kill me ? Now will I pronounce thy sentence.
Thou shalt become a black poodle and have a gold collar round thy neck , and shalt eat burning coals , till the flames burst forth from thy throat"
And when he had spoken these words , the old man was changed into a poodle dog , and had a gold collar round his neck , and the cooks were ordered to bring up some live coals , and these he ate , until the flames broke forth from his throat.
The King 's son remained there a short while longer , and he thought of his mother , and wondered if she were still alive.
At length he said to the maiden , `` I will go home to my own country ; if thou wilt go with me , I will provide for thee"
`` Ah ,"
she replied , `` the way is so long , and what shall I do in a strange land where I am unknown ?"
As she did not seem quite willing , and as they could not be parted from each other , he wished that she might be changed into a beautiful pink , and took her with him.
Then he went away to his own country , and the poodle had to run after him.
He went to the tower in which his mother was confined , and as it was so high , he wished for a ladder which would reach up to the very top.
Then he mounted up and looked inside , and cried , `` Beloved mother , Lady Queen , are you still alive , or are you dead ?"
She answered , `` I have just eaten , and am still satisfied ,"
for she thought the angels were there.
Said he , `` I am your dear son , whom the wild beasts were said to have torn from your arms ; but I am alive still , and will speedily deliver you"
Then he descended again , and went to his father , and caused himself to be announced as a strange huntsman , and asked if he could give him a place.
The King said yes , if he was skilful and could get game for him , he should come to him , but that deer had never taken up their quarters in any part of the district or country.
Then the huntsman promised to procure as much game for him as he could possibly use at the royal table.
So he summoned all the huntsmen together , and bade them go out into the forest with him.
And he went with them and made them form a great circle , open at one end where he stationed himself , and began to wish.
Two hundred deer and more came running inside the circle at once , and the huntsmen shot them.
Then they were all placed on sixty country carts , and driven home to the King , and for once he was able to deck his table with game , after having had none at all for years.
Now the King felt great joy at this , and commanded that his entire household should eat with him next day , and made a great feast.
When they were all assembled together , he said to the huntsmen , `` As thou art so clever , thou shalt sit by me"
He replied , `` Lord King , your majesty must excuse me , I am a poor huntsman"
But the King insisted on it , and said , `` Thou shalt sit by me ,"
until he did it.
Whilst he was sitting there , he thought of his dearest mother , and wished that one of the King 's principal servants would begin to speak of her , and would ask how it was faring with the Queen in the tower , and if she were alive still , or had perished.
Hardly had he formed the wish than the marshal began , and said , `` Your majesty , we live joyously here , but how is the Queen living in the tower ? Is she still alive , or has she died ?"
But the King replied , `` She let my dear son be torn to pieces by wild beasts ; I will not have her named"
Then the huntsman arose and said , `` Gracious lord father , she is alive still , and I am her son , and I was not carried away by wild beasts , but by that wretch the old cook , who tore me from her arms when she was asleep , and sprinkled her apron with the blood of a chicken"
Thereupon he took the dog with the golden collar , and said , `` That is the wretch !"
and caused live coals to be brought , and these the dog was compelled to devour before the sight of all , until flames burst forth from its throat.
On this the huntsman asked the King if he would like to see the dog in his true shape , and wished him back into the form of the cook , in the which he stood immediately , with his white apron , and his knife by his side.
When the King saw him he fell into a passion , and ordered him to be cast into the deepest dungeon.
Then the huntsman spoke further and said , `` Father , will you see the maiden who brought me up so tenderly and who was afterwards to murder me , but did not do it , though her own life depended on it ?"
The King replied , `` Yes , I would like to see her"
The son said , `` Most gracious father , I will show her to you in the form of a beautiful flower ,"
and he thrust his hand into his pocket and brought forth the pink , and placed it on the royal table , and it was so beautiful that the King had never seen one to equal it.
Then the son said , `` Now will I show her to you in her own form ,"
and wished that she might become a maiden , and she stood there looking so beautiful that no painter could have made her look more so.
And the King sent two waiting-maids and two attendants into the tower , to fetch the Queen and bring her to the royal table.
But when she was led in she ate nothing , and said , `` The gracious and merciful God who has supported me in the tower , will speedily deliver me"
She lived three days more , and then died happily , and when she was buried , the two white doves which had brought her food to the tower , and were angels of heaven , followed her body and seated themselves on her grave.
The aged King ordered the cook to be torn in four pieces , but grief consumed the King 's own heart , and he soon died.
His son married the beautiful maiden whom he had brought with him as a flower in his pocket , and whether they are still alive or not , is known to God"
There was once a King 's son , who was no longer content to stay at home in his father 's house , and as he had no fear of anything , he thought , `` I will go forth into the wide world , there the time will not seem long to me , and I shall see wonders enough"
So he took leave of his parents , and went forth , and on and on from morning till night , and whichever way his path led it was the same to him.
It came to pass that he got to the house of a giant , and as he was so tired he sat down by the door and rested.
And as he let his eyes roam here and there , he saw the giant 's playthings lying in the yard.
These were a couple of enormous balls , and nine-pins as tall as a man.
After a while he had a fancy to set the nine-pins up and then rolled the balls at them , and screamed and cried out when the nine-pins fell , and had a merry time of it.
The giant heard the noise , stretched his head out of the window , and saw a man who was not taller than other men , and yet played with his nine-pins.
`` Little worm ,"
cried he , `` why art thou playing with my balls ? Who gave thee strength to do it ?"
The King 's son looked up , saw the giant , and said , `` Oh , thou blockhead , thou thinkest indeed that thou only hast strong arms , I can do everything I want to do"
The giant came down and watched the bowling with great admiration , and said , `` Child of man , if thou art one of that kind , go and bring me an apple of the tree of life"
`` What dost thou want with it ?"
said the King 's son.
`` I do not want the apple for myself ,"
answered the giant , `` but I have a betrothed bride who wishes for it.
I have traveled far about the world and can not find the tree"
`` I will soon find it ,"
said the King 's son , `` and I do not know what is to prevent me from getting the apple down"
The giant said , `` Thou really believest it to be so easy ! The garden in which the tree stands is surrounded by an iron railing , and in front of the railing lie wild beasts , each close to the other , and they keep watch and let no man go in"
`` They will be sure to let me in ,"
said the King 's son.
`` Yes , but even if thou dost get into the garden , and seest the apple hanging to the tree , it is still not thine ; a ring hangs in front of it , through which any one who wants to reach the apple and break it off , must put his hand , and no one has yet had the luck to do it"
`` That luck will be mine ,"
said the King 's son.
Then he took leave of the giant , and went forth over mountain and valley , and through plains and forests , until at length he came to the wondrous garden.
The beasts lay round about it , but they had put their heads down and were asleep.
Moreover , they did not awake when he went up to them , so he stepped over them , climbed the fence , and got safely into the garden.
There , in the very middle of it , stood the tree of life , and the red apples were shining upon the branches.
He climbed up the trunk to the top , and as he was about to reach out for an apple , he saw a ring hanging before it ; but he thrust his hand through that without any difficulty , and gathered the apple.
The ring closed tightly on his arm , and all at once he felt a prodigious strength flowing through his veins.
When he had come down again from the tree with the apple , he would not climb over the fence , but grasped the great gate , and had no need to shake it more than once before it sprang open with a loud crash.
Then he went out , and the lion which had been lying down before , was awake and sprang after him , not in rage and fierceness , but following him humbly as its master.
The King 's son took the giant the apple he had promised him , and said , `` Seest thou , I have brought it without difficulty"
The giant was glad that his desire had been so soon satisfied , hastened to his bride , and gave her the apple for which she had wished.
She was a beautiful and wise maiden , and as she did not see the ring on his arm , she said , `` I shall never believe that thou hast brought the apple , until I see the ring on thine arm"
The giant said , `` I have nothing to do but go home and fetch it ,"
and thought it would be easy to take away by force from the weak man , what he would not give of his own free will.
He therefore demanded the ring from him , but the King 's son refused it.
`` Where the apple is , the ring must be also ,"
said the giant ; `` if thou wilt not give it of thine own accord , thou must fight with me for it"
They wrestled with each other for a long time , but the giant could not get the better of the King 's son , who was strengthened by the magical power of the ring.
Then the giant thought of a stratagem , and said , `` I have got warm with fighting , and so hast thou.
We will bathe in the river , and cool ourselves before we begin again"
The King 's son , who knew nothing of falsehood , went with him to the water , and pulled off with his clothes the ring also from his arm , and sprang into the river.
The giant instantly snatched the ring , and ran away with it , but the lion , which had observed the theft , pursued the giant , tore the ring out of his hand , and brought it back to its master.
Then the giant placed himself behind an oak-tree , and while the King 's son was busy putting on his clothes again , surprised him , and put both his eyes out.
And now the unhappy King 's son stood there , and was blind and knew not how to help himself.
Then the giant came back to him , took him by the hand as if he were someone who wanted to guide him , and led him to the top of a high rock.
There he left him standing , and thought , `` Just two steps more , and he will fall down and kill himself , and I can take the ring from him"
But the faithful lion had not deserted its master ; it held him fast by the clothes , and drew him gradually back again.
When the giant came and wanted to rob the dead man , he saw that his cunning had been in vain.
`` Is there no way , then , of destroying a weak child of man like that ?"
said he angrily to himself , and seized the King 's son and led him back again to the precipice by another way , but the lion which saw his evil design , helped its master out of danger here also.
When they had got close to the edge , the giant let the blind man 's hand drop , and was going to leave him behind alone , but the lion pushed the giant so that he was thrown down and fell , dashed to pieces , on the ground.
The faithful animal again drew its master back from the precipice , and guided him to a tree by which flowed a clear brook.
The King 's son sat down there , but the lion lay down , and sprinkled the water in his face with its paws.
Scarcely had a couple of drops wetted the sockets of his eyes , than he was once more able to see something , and remarked a little bird flying quite close by , which wounded itself against the trunk of a tree.
On this it went down to the water and bathed itself therein , and then it soared upwards and swept between the trees without touching them , as if it had recovered its sight again.
Then the King 's son recognized a sign from God and stooped down to the water , and washed and bathed his face in it.
And when he arose he had his eyes once more , brighter and clearer than they had ever been.
The King 's son thanked God for his great mercy , and traveled with his lion onwards through the world.
And it came to pass that he arrived before a castle which was enchanted.
In the gateway stood a maiden of beautiful form and fine face , but she was quite black.
She spoke to him and said , `` Ah , if thou couldst but deliver me from the evil spell which is thrown over me"
`` What shall I do ?"
said the King 's son.
The maiden answered , `` Thou must pass three nights in the great hall of this enchanted castle , but thou must let no fear enter thy heart.
When they are doing their worst to torment thee , if thou bearest it without letting a sound escape thee , I shall be free.
Thy life they dare not take"
Then said the King 's son , `` I have no fear ; with God 's help I will try it"
So he went gaily into the castle , and when it grew dark he seated himself in the large hall and waited.
Everything was quiet , however , till midnight , when all at once a great tumult began , and out of every hole and corner came little devils.
They behaved as if they did not see him , seated themselves in the middle of the room , lighted a fire , and began to gamble.
When one of them lost , he said , `` It is not right ; some one is here who does not belong to us ; it is his fault that I am losing"
`` Wait , you fellow behind the stove , I am coming ,"
said another.
The screaming became still louder , so that no one could have heard it without terror.
The King 's son stayed sitting quite quietly , and was not afraid ; but at last the devils jumped up from the ground , and fell on him , and there were so many of them that he could not defend himself from them.
They dragged him about on the floor , pinched him , pricked him , beat him , and tormented him , but no sound escaped from him.
Towards morning they disappeared , and he was so exhausted that he could scarcely move his limbs , but when day dawned the black maiden came to him.
She bore in her hand a little bottle wherein was the water of life wherewith she washed him , and he at once felt all pain depart and new strength flow through his veins.
She said , `` Thou hast held out successfully for one night , but two more lie before thee"
Then she went away again , and as she was going , he observed that her feet had become white.
The next night the devils came and began their gambols anew.
They fell on the King 's son , and beat him much more severely than the night before , until his body was covered with wounds.
But as he bore all quietly , they were forced to leave him , and when dawn appeared , the maiden came and healed him with the water of life.
And when she went away , he saw with joy that she had already become white to the tips of her fingers.
And now he had only one night more to go through , but it was the worst.
The hob-goblins came again : `` Art thou there still ?"
cried they , `` thou shalt be tormented till thy breath stops"
They pricked him and beat him , and threw him here and there , and pulled him by the arms and legs as if they wanted to tear him to pieces , but he bore everything , and never uttered a cry.
At last the devils vanished , but he lay fainting there , and did not stir , nor could he raise his eyes to look at the maiden who came in , and sprinkled and bathed him with the water of life.
But suddenly he was freed from all pain , and felt fresh and healthy as if he had awakened from sleep , and when he opened his eyes he saw the maiden standing by him , snow-white , and fair as day.
`` Rise ,"
said she , `` and swing thy sword three times over the stairs , and then all will be delivered"
And when he had done that , the whole castle was released from enchantment , and the maiden was a rich King 's daughter.
The servants came and said that the table was already set in the great hall , and dinner served up.
Then they sat down and ate and drank together , and in the evening the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicings"
There was once upon a time a Queen who had a little daughter who was still so young that she had to be carried.
One day the child was naughty , and the mother might say what she liked , but the child would not be quiet.
Then she became impatient , and as the ravens were flying about the palace , she opened the window and said , `` I wish you were a raven and would fly away , and then I should have some rest"
Scarcely had she spoken the words , before the child was changed into a raven , and flew from her arms out of the window.
It flew into a dark forest , and stayed in it a long time , and the parents heard nothing of their child.
Then one day a man was on his way through this forest and heard the raven crying , and followed the voice , and when he came nearer , the bird said , `` I am a king 's daughter by birth , and am bewitched , but thou canst set me free"
`` What am I to do ,"
asked he.
She said , `` Go further into the forest , and thou wilt find a house , wherein sits an aged woman , who will offer thee meat and drink , but you must accept nothing , for if you eatest and drinkest anything , thou wilt fall into a sleep , and then thou wilt not be able to deliver me.
In the garden behind the house there is a great heap of tan , and on this thou shalt stand and wait for me.
For three days I will come every afternoon at two o'clock in a carriage.
On the first day four white horses will be harnessed to it , then four chestnut horses , and lastly four black ones ; but if thou art not awake , but sleeping , I shall not be set free"
The man promised to do everything that she desired , but the raven said , alas , `` I know already that thou wilt not deliver me ; thou wilt accept something from the woman"
Then the man once more promised that he would certainly not touch anything either to eat or to drink.
But when he entered the house the old woman came to him and said , `` Poor man , how faint you are ; come and refresh yourself ; eat and drink"
`` No ,"
said the man , `` I will not eat or drink"
She , however , let him have no peace , and said , `` If you will not eat , take one drink out of the glass ; one is nothing"
Then he let himself be persuaded , and drank.
Shortly before two o'clock in the afternoon he went into the garden to the tan heap to wait for the raven.
As he was standing there , his weariness all at once became so great that he could not struggle against it , and lay down for a short time , but he was determined not to go to sleep.
Hardly , however , had he lain down , than his eyes closed of their own accord , and he fell asleep and slept so soundly that nothing in the world could have aroused him.
At two o'clock the raven came driving up with four white horses , but she was already in deep grief and said , `` I know he is asleep"
And when she came into the garden , he was indeed lying there asleep on the heap of tan.
She alighted from the carriage , went to him , shook him , and called him , but he did not awake.
Next day about noon , the old woman came again and brought him food and drink , but he would not take any of it.
But she let him have no rest and persuaded him until at length he again took one drink out of the glass.
Towards two o'clock he went into the garden to the tan heap to wait for the raven , but all at once felt such a great weariness that his limbs would no longer support him.
He could not help himself , and was forced to lie down , and fell into a heavy sleep.
When the raven drove up with four brown horses , she was already full of grief , and said , `` I know he is asleep"
She went to him , but there he lay sleeping , and there was no wakening him.
Next day the old woman asked what was the meaning of this ? He was neither eating nor drinking anything ; did he want to die ? He replied , `` I am not allowed to eat or drink , and will not do so"
But she set a dish with food , and a glass with wine before him , and when he smelt it he could not resist , and swallowed a deep draught.
When the time came , he went out into the garden to the heap of tan , and waited for the King 's daughter ; but he became still more weary than on the day before , and lay down and slept as soundly as if he had been a stone.
At two o'clock the raven came with four black horses , and the coachman and everything else was black.
She was already in the deepest grief , and said , `` I know that he is asleep and can not deliver me"
When she came to him , there he was lying fast asleep.
She shook him and called him , but she could not waken him.
Then she laid a loaf beside him , and after that a piece of meat , and thirdly a bottle of wine , and he might consume as much of all of them as he liked , but they would never grow less.
After this she took a gold ring from her finger , and put it on his , and her name was graven on it.
Lastly , she laid a letter beside him wherein was written what she had given him , and that none of the things would ever grow less ; and in it was also written , `` I see right well that here you will never be able to deliver me , but if thou art still willing to deliver me , come to the golden castle of person_0 ; it lies in thy power , of that I am certain"
And when she had given him all these things , she seated herself in her carriage , and drove to the golden castle of person_0.
When the man awoke and saw that he had slept , he was sad at heart , and said , `` She has certainly driven by , and I have not set her free"
Then he perceived the things which were lying beside him , and read the letter wherein was written how everything had happened.
So he arose and went away , intending to go to the golden castle of person_0 , but he did not know where it was.
After he had walked about the world for a long time , he entered into a dark forest , and walked for fourteen days , and still could not find his way out.
Then it was once more evening , and he was so tired that he lay down in a thicket and fell asleep.
Next day he went onwards , and in the evening , as he was again about to lie down beneath some bushes , he heard such a howling and crying that he could not go to sleep.
And at the time when people light the candles , he saw one glimmering , and arose and went towards it.
Then he came to a house which seemed very small , for in front of it a great giant was standing.
He thought to himself , `` If I go in , and the giant sees me , it will very likely cost me my life"
At length he ventured it and went in.
When the giant saw him , he said , `` It is well that thou comest , for it is long since I have eaten ; I will at once eat thee for my supper"
`` I 'd rather you would leave that alone ,"
said the man , `` I do not like to be eaten ; but if thou hast any desire to eat , I have quite enough here to satisfy thee"
`` If that be true ,"
said the giant , `` thou mayst be easy , I was only going to devour thee because I had nothing else"
Then they went , and sat down to the table , and the man took out the bread , wine , and meat which would never come to an end.
`` This pleases me well ,"
said the giant , and ate to his heart 's content.
Then the man said to him , `` Canst thou tell me where the golden castle of person_0 is ?"
The giant said , `` I will look at my map ; all the towns , and villages , and houses are to be found on it"
He brought out the map which he had in the room and looked for the castle , but it was not to be found on it.
`` It 's no matter !"
said he , `` I have some still larger maps in my cupboard upstairs , and we will look in them"
But there , too , it was in vain.
The man now wanted to go onwards , but the giant begged him to wait a few days longer until his brother , who had gone out to bring some provisions , came home.
When the brother came home they inquired about the golden castle of person_0.
He replied , `` When I have eaten and have had enough , I will look in the map"
Then he went with them up to his chamber , and they searched in his map , but could not find it.
Then he brought out still older maps , and they never rested until they found the golden castle of person_0 , but it was many thousand miles away.
`` How am I to get there ?"
asked the man.
The giant said , `` I have two hours ' time , during which I will carry you into the neighborhood , but after that I must be at home to suckle the child that we have"
So the giant carried the man to about a hundred leagues from the castle , and said , `` Thou canst very well walk the rest of the way alone"
And he turned back , but the man went onwards day and night , until at length he came to the golden castle of person_0.
It stood on a glass-mountain , and the bewitched maiden drove in her carriage round the castle , and then went inside it.
He rejoiced when he saw her and wanted to climb up to her , but when he began to do so he always slipped down the glass again.
And when he saw that he could not reach her , he was filled with trouble , and said to himself , `` I will stay down here below , and wait for her"
So he built himself a hut and stayed in it for a whole year , and every day saw the King 's daughter driving about above , but never could go to her.
Then one day he saw from his hut three robbers who were beating each other , and cried to them , `` God be with ye !"
They stopped when they heard the cry , but as they saw no one , they once more began to beat each other , and that too most dangerously.
So he again cried , `` God be with ye !"
Again they stopped , looked round about , but as they saw no one they went on beating each other.
Then he cried for the third time , `` God be with ye ,"
and thought , `` I must see what these three are about ,"
and went thither and asked why they were beating each other so furiously.
One of them said that he found a stick , and that when he struck a door with it , that door would spring open.
The next said that he had found a mantle , and that whenever he put it on , he was invisible , but the third said he had found a horse on which a man could ride everywhere , even up the glass-mountain.
And now they did not know whether they ought to have these things in common , or whether they ought to divide them.
Then the man said , `` I will give you something in exchange for these three things.
Money indeed have I not , but I have other things of more value ; but first I must try yours to see if you have told the truth"
Then they put him on the horse , threw the mantle round him , and gave him the stick in his hand , and when he had all these things they were no longer able to see him.
So he gave them some vigorous blows and cried , `` Now , vagabonds , you have got what you deserve , are you satisfied ?"
And he rode up the glass-mountain , but when he came in front of the castle at the top , it was shut.
Then he struck the door with his stick , and it sprang open immediately.
He went in and ascended the stairs until he came to the hall where the maiden was sitting with a golden cup full of wine before her.
She , however , could not see him because he had the mantle on.
And when he came up to her , he drew from his finger the ring which she had given him , and threw it into the cup so that it rang.
Then she cried , `` That is my ring , so the man who is to set me free must be here"
They searched the whole castle and did not find him , but he had gone out , and had seated himself on the horse and thrown off the mantle.
When they came to the door , they saw him and cried aloud in their delight.
\* Then he alighted and took the King 's daughter in his arms , but she kissed him and said , `` Now hast thou set me free , and to-morrow we will celebrate our wedding"
THERE was once a young fellow who had learned the trade of locksmith , and told his father he would now go out into the world and seek his fortune.
`` Very well ,"
said the father , `` I am quite content with that ,"
and gave him some money for his journey.
So he traveled about and looked for work.
After a time he resolved not to follow the trade of locksmith any more , for he no longer liked it , but he took a fancy for hunting.
Then there met him in his rambles a huntsman dressed in green , who asked whence he came and whither he was going ? The youth said he was a locksmith 's apprentice , but that the trade no longer pleased him , and he had a liking for huntsmanship , would he teach it to him ? `` Oh , yes ,"
said the huntsman , `` if thou wilt go with me"
Then the young fellow went with him , bound himself to him for some years , and learned the art of hunting.
After this he wished to try his luck elsewhere , and the huntsman gave him nothing in the way of payment but an air-gun , which had , however , this property , that it hit its mark without fail whenever he shot with it.
Then he set out and found himself in a very large forest , which he could not get to the end of in one day.
When evening came he seated himself in a high tree in order to escape from the wild beasts.
Towards midnight , it seemed to him as if a tiny little light glimmered in the distance.
Then he looked down through the branches towards it , and kept well in his mind where it was.
But in the first place he took off his hat and threw it down in the direction of the light , so that he might go to the hat as a mark when he had descended.
Then he got down and went to his hat , put it on again and went straight forwards.
The farther he went , the larger the light grew , and when he got close to it he saw that it was an enormous fire , and that three giants were sitting by it , who had an ox on the spit , and were roasting it.
Presently one of them said , `` I must just taste if the meat will soon be fit to eat ,"
and pulled a piece off , and was about to put it in his mouth when the huntsman shot it out of his hand.
`` Well , really ,"
said the giant , `` if the wind has not blown the bit out of my hand !"
and helped himself to another.
But when he was just about to bite into it , the huntsman again shot it away from him.
On this the giant gave the one who was sitting next him a box on the ear , and cried angrily , `` Why art thou snatching my piece away from me ?"
`` I have not snatched it away ,"
said the other , `` a sharpshooter must have shot it away from thee"
The giant took another piece , but could not , however , keep it in his hand , for the huntsman shot it out.
Then the giant said , `` That must be a good shot to shoot the bit out of one 's very mouth , such an one would be useful to us"
And he cried aloud , `` Come here , thou sharpshooter , seat thyself at the fire beside us and eat thy fill , we will not hurt thee ; but if thou wilt not come , and we have to bring thee by force , thou art a lost man !"
On this the youth went up to them and told them he was a skilled huntsman , and that whatever he aimed at with his gun , he was certain to hit.
Then they said if he would go with them he should be well treated , and they told him that outside the forest there was a great lake , behind which stood a tower , and in the tower was imprisoned a lovely princess , whom they wished very much to carry off.
`` Yes ,"
said he , `` I will soon get her for you"
Then they added , `` But there is still something else , there is a tiny little dog , which begins to bark directly any one goes near , and as soon as it barks every one in the royal palace wakens up , and for this reason we can not get there ; canst thou undertake to shoot it dead ?"
`` Yes ,"
said he , `` that will be a little bit of fun for me"
After this he got into a boat and rowed over the lake , and as soon as he landed , the little dog came running out , and was about to bark , but the huntsman took his air-gun and shot it dead.
When the giants saw that , they rejoiced , and thought they already had the King 's daughter safe , but the huntsman wished first to see how matters stood , and told them that they must stay outside until he called them.
Then he went into the castle , and all was perfectly quiet within , and every one was asleep.
When he opened the door of the first room , a sword was hanging on the wall which was made of pure silver , and there was a golden star on it , and the name of the King , and on a table near it lay a sealed letter which he broke open , and inside it was written that whosoever had the sword could kill everything which opposed him.
So he took the sword from the wall , hung it at his side and went onwards : then he entered the room where the King 's daughter was lying sleeping , and she was so beautiful that he stood still and , holding his breath , looked at her.
He thought to himself , `` How can I give an innocent maiden into the power of the wild giants , who have evil in their minds ?"
He looked about further , and under the bed stood a pair of slippers , on the right one was her father 's name with a star , and on the left her own name with a star.
She wore also a great neck-kerchief of silk embroidered with gold , and on the right side was her father 's name , and on the left her own , all in golden letters.
Then the huntsman took a pair of scissors and cut the right corner off , and put it in his knapsack , and then he also took the right slipper with the King 's name , and thrust that in.
Now the maiden still lay sleeping , and she was quite sewn into her night-dress , and he cut a morsel from this also , and thrust it in with the rest , but he did all without touching her.
Then he went forth and left her lying asleep undisturbed , and when he came to the gate again , the giants were still standing outside waiting for him , and expecting that he was bringing the princess.
But he cried to them that they were to come in , for the maiden was already in their power , that he could not open the gate to them , but there was a hole through which they must creep.
Then the first approached , and the huntsman wound the giant 's hair round his hand , pulled the head in , and cut it off at one stroke with his sword , and then drew the rest of him in.
He called to the second and cut his head off likewise , and then he killed the third also , and he was well pleased that he had freed the beautiful maiden from her enemies , and he cut out their tongues and put them in his knapsack.
Then thought he , `` I will go home to my father and let him see what I have already done , and afterwards I will travel about the world ; the luck which God is pleased to grant me will easily find me"
But when the King in the castle awoke , he saw the three giants lying there dead.
So he went into the sleeping-room of his daughter , awoke her , and asked who could have killed the giants ? Then said she , `` Dear father , I know not , I have been asleep"
But when she arose and would have put on her slippers , the right one was gone , and when she looked at her neck-kerchief it was cut , and the right corner was missing , and when she looked at her night-dress a piece was cut out of it.
The King summoned his whole court together , soldiers and every one else who was there , and asked who had set his daughter at liberty , and killed the giants ? Now it happened that he had a captain , who was one-eyed and a hideous man , and he said that he had done it.
Then the old King said that as he had accomplished this , he should marry his daughter.
But the maiden said , `` Rather than marry him , dear father , I will go away into the world as far as my legs can carry me"
But the King said that if she would not marry him she should take off her royal garments and wear peasant 's clothing , and go forth , and that she should go to a potter , and begin a trade in earthen vessels.
So she put off her royal apparel , and went to a potter and borrowed crockery enough for a stall , and she promised him also that if she had sold it by the evening , she would pay for it.
Then the King said she was to seat herself in a corner with it and sell it , and he arranged with some peasants to drive over it with their carts , so that everything should be broken into a thousand pieces.
When therefore the King 's daughter had placed her stall in the street , by came the carts , and broke all she had into tiny fragments.
She began to weep and said , `` Alas , how shall I ever pay for the pots now ?"
The King had , however , wished by this to force her to marry the captain ; but instead of that , she again went to the potter , and asked him if he would lend to her once more.
He said , `` No ,"
she must first pay for the things she had already had.
Then she went to her father and cried and lamented , and said she would go forth into the world.
Then said he , `` I will have a little hut built for thee in the forest outside , and in it thou shalt stay all thy life long and cook for every one , but thou shalt take no money for it"
When the hut was ready , a sign was hung on the door whereon was written , `` To-day given , to-morrow sold"
There she remained a long time , and it was rumored about the world that a maiden was there who cooked without asking for payment , and that this was set forth on a sign outside her door.
The huntsman heard it likewise , and thought to himself , `` That would suit thee.
Thou art poor , and hast no money"
So he took his air-gun and his knapsack , wherein all the things which he had formerly carried away with him from the castle as tokens of his truthfulness were still lying , and went into the forest , and found the hut with the sign , `` To-day given , to-morrow sold"
He had put on the sword with which he had cut off the heads of the three giants , and thus entered the hut , and ordered something to eat to be given to him.
He was charmed with the beautiful maiden , who was indeed as lovely as any picture.
She asked him whence he came and whither he was going , and he said , `` I am roaming about the world"
Then she asked him where he had got the sword , for that truly her father 's name was on it.
He asked her if she were the King 's daughter.
`` Yes ,"
answered she.
`` With this sword ,"
said he , `` did I cut off the heads of three giants"
And he took their tongues out of his knapsack in proof.
Then he also showed her the slipper , and the corner of the neck-kerchief , and the bit of the night-dress.
Hereupon she was overjoyed , and said that he was the one who had delivered her.
On this they went together to the old King , and fetched him to the hut , and she led him into her room , and told him that the huntsman was the man who had really set her free from the giants.
And when the aged King saw all the proofs of this , he could no longer doubt , and said that he was very glad he knew how everything had happened , and that the huntsman should have her to wife , on which the maiden was glad at heart.
Then she dressed the huntsman as if he were a foreign lord , and the King ordered a feast to be prepared.
When they went to table , the captain sat on the left side of the King 's daughter , but the huntsman was on the right , and the captain thought he was a foreign lord who had come on a visit.
When they had eaten and drunk , the old King said to the captain that he would set before him something which he must guess.
`` Supposing any one said that he had killed the three giants and he were asked where the giants ' tongues were , and he were forced to go and look , and there were none in their heads , how could that happen ?"
The captain said , `` Then they can not have had any"
`` Not so ,"
said the King.
`` Every animal has a tongue ,"
and then he likewise asked what any one would deserve who made such an answer ? The captain replied , `` He ought to be torn in pieces"
Then the King said he had pronounced his own sentence , and the captain was put in prison and then torn in four pieces ; but the King 's daughter was married to the huntsman.
After this he brought his father and mother , and they lived with their son in happiness , and after the death of the old King he received the kingdom"
A farmer once had a faithful dog called Sultan , who had grown old , and lost all his teeth , so that he could no longer hold anything fast.
One day the farmer was standing with his wife before the house-door , and said , `` To-morrow I intend to shoot Old Sultan , he is no longer of any use"
His wife , who felt pity for the faithful beast , answered , `` He has served us so long , and been so faithful , that we might well give him his keep"
`` Eh ! what ?"
said the man.
`` You are not very sharp.
He has not a tooth left in his mouth , and not a thief is afraid of him ; now he may be off.
If he has served us , he has had good feeding for it"
The poor dog , who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off , had heard everything , and was sorry that the morrow was to be his last day.
He had a good friend , the wolf , and he crept out in the evening into the forest to him , and complained of the fate that awaited him.
`` Hark ye , gossip ,"
said the wolf , `` be of good cheer , I will help you out of your trouble.
I have thought of something.
To-morrow , early in the morning , your master is going with his wife to make hay , and they will take their little child with them , for no one will be left behind in the house.
They are wont , during work-time , to lay the child under the hedge in the shade ; you lay yourself there too , just as if you wished to guard it.
Then I will come out of the wood , and carry off the child.
You must rush swiftly after me , as if you would seize it again from me.
I will let it fall , and you will take it back to its parents , who will think that you have saved it , and will be far too grateful to do you any harm ; on the contrary , you will be in high favor , and they will never let you want for anything again"
The plan pleased the dog , and it was carried out just as it was arranged.
The father screamed when he saw the Wolf running across the field with his child , but when Old Sultan brought it back , then he was full of joy , and stroked him and said , `` Not a hair of yours shall be hurt , you shall eat my bread free as long as you live"
And to his wife he said , `` Go home at once and make Old Sultan some bread-sop that he will not have to bite , and bring the pillow out of my bed , I will give him that to lie upon"
Henceforth Old Sultan was as well off as he could wish to be.
Soon afterwards the wolf visited him , and was pleased that everything had succeeded so well.
`` But , gossip ,"
said he , `` you will just wink an eye if when I have a chance , I carry off one of your master 's fat sheep"
`` Do not reckon upon that ,"
answered the dog ; `` I will remain true to my master ; I can not agree to that"
The wolf , who thought that this could not be spoken in earnest , came creeping about in the night and was going to take away the sheep.
But the farmer , to whom the faithful Sultan had told the wolf 's plan , caught him and dressed his hide soundly with the flail.
The wolf had to pack off , but he cried out to the dog , `` Wait a bit , you scoundrel , you shall pay for this"
The next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge the dog to come out into the forest so that they might settle the affair.
Old Sultan could find no one to stand by him but a cat with only three legs , and as they went out together the poor cat limped along , and at the same time stretched out her tail into the air with pain.
The wolf and his friend were already on the spot appointed , but when they saw their enemy coming they thought that he was bringing a sabre with him , for they mistook the outstretched tail of the cat for one.
And when the poor beast hopped on its three legs , they could only think every time that it was picking up a stone to throw at them.
So they were both afraid ; the wild boar crept into the under-wood and the wolf jumped up a tree.
The dog and the cat , when they came up , wondered that there was no one to be seen.
The wild boar , however , had not been able to hide himself altogether ; and one of his ears was still to be seen.
Whilst the cat was looking carefully about , the boar moved his ear ; the cat , who thought it was a mouse moving there , jumped upon it and bit it hard.
The boar made a fearful noise and ran away , crying out , `` The guilty one is up in the tree"
The dog and cat looked up and saw the wolf , who was ashamed of having shown himself so timid , and made friends with the dog"
The wolf had the fox with him , and whatsoever the wolf wished , that the fox was compelled to do , for he was the weaker , and he would gladly have been rid of his master.
It chanced that once as they were going through the forest , the wolf said , `` Red-fox , get me something to eat , or else I will eat thee thyself"
Then the fox answered , `` I know a farm-yard where there are two young lambs ; if thou art inclined , we will fetch one of them"
That suited the wolf , and they went thither , and the fox stole the little lamb , took it to the wolf , and went away.
The wolf devoured it , but was not satisfied with one ; he wanted the other as well , and went to get it.
As , however , he did it so awkwardly , the mother of the little lamb heard him , and began to cry out terribly , and to bleat so that the farmer came running there.
They found the wolf , and beat him so mercilessly , that he went to the fox limping and howling.
`` Thou hast misled me finely ,"
said he ; `` I wanted to fetch the other lamb , and the country folks surprised me , and have beaten me to a jelly"
The fox replied , `` Why art thou such a glutton ?"
Next day they again went into the country , and the greedy wolf once more said , `` Red-fox , get me something to eat , or I will eat thee thyself"
Then answered the fox , `` I know a farm-house where the wife is baking pancakes to-night ; we will get some of them for ourselves"
They went there , and the fox slipped round the house , and peeped and sniffed about until he discovered where the dish was , and then drew down six pancakes and carried them to the wolf.
`` There is something for thee to eat ,"
said he to him , and then went his way.
The wolf swallowed down the pancakes in an instant , and said , `` They make one want more ,"
and went thither and tore the whole dish down so that it broke in pieces.
This made such a great noise that the woman came out , and when she saw the wolf she called the people , who hurried there , and beat him as long as their sticks would hold together , till with two lame legs , and howling loudly , he got back to the fox in the forest.
`` How abominably thou hast misled me !"
cried he , `` the peasants caught me , and tanned my skin for me"
But the fox replied , `` Why art thou such a glutton ?"
On the third day , when they were out together , and the wolf could only limp along painfully , he again said , `` Red-fox , get me something to eat , or I will eat thee thyself"
The fox answered , `` I know a man who has been killing , and the salted meat is lying in a barrel in the cellar ; we will get that"
Said the wolf , `` I will go when thou dost , that thou mayest help me if I am not able to get away"
`` I am willing ,"
said the fox , and showed him the by-paths and ways by which at length they reached the cellar.
There was meat in abundance , and the wolf attacked it instantly and thought , `` There is plenty of time before I need leave off !"
The fox liked it also , but looked about everywhere , and often ran to the hole by which they had come in , and tried if his body was still thin enough to slip through it.
The wolf said , `` Dear fox , tell me why thou art running here and there so much , and jumping in and out ?"
`` I must see that no one is coming ,"
replied the crafty fellow.
`` Do n't eat too much !"
Then said the wolf , `` I shall not leave until the barrel is empty"
In the meantime the farmer , who had heard the noise of the fox 's jumping , came into the cellar.
When the fox saw him he was out of the hole at one bound.
The wolf wanted to follow him , but he had made himself so fat with eating that he could no longer get through , but stuck fast.
Then came the farmer with a cudgel and struck him dead , but the fox bounded into the forest , glad to be rid of the old glutton"
Hans wished to put his son to learn a trade , so he went into the church and prayed to our Lord God to know which would be most advantageous for him.
Then the clerk got behind the altar , and said , `` Thieving , thieving"
On this Hans goes back to his son , and tells him he is to learn thieving , and that the Lord God had said so.
So he goes with his son to seek a man who is acquainted with thieving.
They walk a long time and come into a great forest , where stands a little house with an old woman in it.
Hans says , `` Do you know of a man who is acquainted with thieving ?"
`` You can learn that here quite well ,"
says the woman , `` my son is a master of it"
So he speaks with the son , and asks if he knows thieving really well ? The master-thief says , `` I will teach him well.
Come back when a year is over , and then if you recognize your son , I will take no payment at all for teaching him ; but if you do n't know him , you must give me two hundred thalers"
The father goes home again , and the son learns witchcraft and thieving , thoroughly.
When the year is out , the father is full of anxiety to know how he is to contrive to recognize his son.
As he is thus going about in his trouble , he meets a little dwarf , who says , `` Man , what ails you , that you are always in such trouble ?"
`` Oh ,"
says Hans , `` a year ago I placed my son with a master-thief who told me I was to come back when the year was out , and that if I then did not know my son when I saw him , I was to pay two hundred thalers ; but if I did know him I was to pay nothing , and now I am afraid of not knowing him and ca n't tell where I am to get the money"
Then the dwarf tells him to take a small basket of bread with him , and to stand beneath the chimney.
`` There on the cross-beam is a basket , out of which a little bird is peeping , and that is your son"
Hans goes thither , and throws a little basket full of black bread in front of the basket with the bird in it , and the little bird comes out , and looks up.
`` Hollo , my son , art thou here ?"
says the father , and the son is delighted to see his father , but the master-thief says , `` The devil must have prompted you , or how could you have known your son ?"
`` Father , let us go ,"
said the youth.
Then the father and son set out homeward.
On the way a carriage comes driving by.
Hereupon the son says to his father , `` I will change myself into a large greyhound , and then you can earn a great deal of money by me"
Then the gentleman calls from the carriage , `` My man , will you sell your dog ?"
`` Yes ,"
says the father.
`` How much do you want for it ?"
`` Thirty thalers"
`` Eh , man , that is a great deal , but as it is such a very fine dog I will have it"
The gentleman takes it into his carriage , but when they have driven a little farther the dog springs out of the carriage through the window , and goes back to his father , and is no longer a greyhound.
They go home together.
Next day there is a fair in the neighboring town , so the youth says to his father , `` I will now change myself into a beautiful horse , and you can sell me ; but when you have sold me , you must take off my bridle , or I can not become a man again"
Then the father goes with the horse to the fair , and the master-thief comes and buys the horse for a hundred thalers , but the father forgets , and does not take off the bridle.
So the man goes home with the horse , and puts it in the stable.
When the maid crosses the threshold , the horse says , `` Take off my bridle , take off my bridle"
Then the maid stands still , and says , `` What , canst thou speak ?"
So she goes and takes the bridle off , and the horse becomes a sparrow , and flies out at the door , and the wizard becomes a sparrow also , and flies after him.
Then they come together and cast lots , but the master loses , and betakes himself to the water and is a fish.
Then the youth also becomes a fish , and they cast lots again , and the master loses.
So the master changes himself into a cock , and the youth becomes a fox , and bites the master 's head off , and he died and has remained dead to this day"
There were once two brothers , the one rich , the other poor.
The rich one , however , gave nothing to the poor one , and he gained a scanty living by trading in corn , and often did so badly that he had no bread for his wife and children.
Once when he was wheeling a barrow through the forest he saw , on one side of him , a great , bare , naked-looking mountain , and as he had never seen it before , he stood still and stared at it with amazement.
While he was thus standing he saw a twelve great , wild men coming towards him , and as he believed they were robbers he pushed his barrow into the thicket , climbed up a tree , and waited to see what would happen.
The twelve men , however , went to the mountain and cried , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , open ,"
and immediately the barren mountain opened down the middle , and the twelve went into it , and as soon as they were within , it shut.
After a short time , however , it opened again , and the men came forth carrying heavy sacks on their shoulders , and when they were all once more in the daylight they said , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , shut thyself ;"
then the mountain closed together , and there was no longer any entrance to be seen to it , and the twelve went away.
When they were quite out of sight the poor man got down from the tree , and was curious to know what really was secretly hidden in the mountain.
So he went up to it and said , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , open ,"
and the mountain opened to him also.
The he went inside , and the whole mountain was a cavern full of silver and gold , and behind lay great piles of pearls and sparkling jewels , heaped up like corn.
The poor man hardly knew what to do , and whether he might take any of these treasures for himself or not ; but at last he filled his pockets with gold , but he left the pearls and precious stones where they were.
When he came out again he also said , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , shut thyself ;"
and the mountain closed itself , and he went home with his barrow.
And now he had no more cause for anxiety , but could buy bread for his wife and children with his gold , and wine into the bargain.
He lived joyously and uprightly , gave help to the poor , and did good to every one.
When , however , the money came to an end he went to his brother , borrowed a measure that held a bushel , and brought himself some more , but did not touch any of the most valuable things.
When for the third time he wanted to fetch something , he again borrowed the measure of his brother.
The rich man had , however , long been envious of his brother 's possessions , and of the handsome way of living which he had set on foot , and could not understand from whence the riches came , and what his brother wanted with the measure.
Then he thought of a cunning trick , and covered the bottom of the measure with pitch , and when he got the measure back a piece of money was sticking in it.
He at once went to his brother and asked him , `` What hast thou been measuring in the bushel measure ?"
`` Corn and barley ,"
said the other.
Then he showed him the piece of money , and threatened that if he did not tell the truth he would accuse him before a court of justice.
The poor man then told him everything , just as it happened.
The rich man , however , ordered his carriage to be made ready , and drove away , resolved to use the opportunity better than his brother had done , and to bring back with him quite different treasures.
When he came to the mountain he cried , `` Semsi mountain , Semsi mountain , open"
The mountain opened , and he went inside it.
There lay the treasures all before him , and for a long time he did not know which to clutch at first.
At length he loaded himself with as many precious stones as he could carry.
He wished to carry his burden outside , but , as his heart and soul were entirely full of the treasures , he had forgotten the name of the mountain , and cried , `` Simeli mountain , Simeli mountain , open"
That , however , was not the right name , and the mountain never stirred , but remained shut.
Then he was alarmed , but the longer he thought about it the more his thoughts confused themselves , and his treasures were no more of any use to him.
In the evening the mountain opened , and the twelve robbers came in , and when they saw him they laughed , and cried out , `` Bird , have we caught thee at last ! Didst thou think we had never noticed that thou hadst been in here twice ? We could not catch thee then ; this third time thou shalt not get out again !"
Then he cried , `` It was not I , it was my brother ,"
but let him beg for his life and say what he would , they cut his head off"
Once upon a time there was a man who did nothing but gamble , and for that reason people never called him anything but Gambling person_0 , and as he never ceased to gamble , he played away his house and all that he had.
Now the very day before his creditors were to take his house from him , came the Lord and St.
Peter , and asked him to give them shelter for the night.
Then Gambling person_0 said , `` For my part , you may stay the night , but I can not give you a bed or anything to eat"
So the Lord said he was just to take them in , and they themselves would buy something to eat , to which Gambling person_0 made no objection.
Thereupon St.
Peter gave him three groschen , and said he was to go to the baker 's and fetch some bread.
So Gambling person_0 went , but when he reached the house where the other gambling vagabonds were gathered together , they , although they had won all that he had , greeted him clamorously , and said , `` person_0 , do come in"
`` Oh ,"
said he , `` do you want to win the three groschen too ?"
On this they would not let him go.
So he went in , and played away the three groschen also.
Meanwhile St.
Peter and the Lord were waiting , and as he was so long in coming , they set out to meet him.
When Gambling person_0 came , however , he pretended that the money had fallen into the gutter , and kept raking about in it all the while to find it , but our Lord already knew that he had lost it in play.
St.
Peter again gave him three groschen , and now he did not allow himself to be led away once more , but fetched them the loaf.
Our Lord then inquired if he had no wine , and he said , `` Alack , sir , the casks are all empty !"
But the Lord said he was to go down into the cellar , for the best wine was still there.
For a long time he would not believe this , but at length he said , `` Well , I will go down , but I know that there is none there"
When he turned the tap , however , lo and behold , the best of wine ran out ! So he took it to them , and the two passed the night there.
Early next day our Lord told Gambling person_0 that he might beg three favors.
The Lord expected that he would ask to go to Heaven ; but Gambling person_0 asked for a pack of cards with which he could win everything , for dice with which he would win everything , and for a tree whereon every kind of fruit would grow , and from which no one who had climbed up , could descend until he bade him do so.
The Lord gave him all that he had asked , and departed with St.
Peter.
And now Gambling person_0 at once set about gambling in real earnest , and before long he had gained half the world.
Upon this St.
Peter said to the Lord , `` Lord , this thing must not go on , he will win , and thou lose , the whole world.
We must send Death to him"
When Death appeared , Gambling person_0 had just seated himself at the gaming-table , and Death said , `` person_0 , come out a while"
But Gambling person_0 said , `` Just wait a little until the game is done , and in the meantime get up into that tree out there , and gather a little fruit that we may have something to munch on our way"
Thereupon Death climbed up , but when he wanted to come down again , he could not , and Gambling person_0 left him up there for seven years , during which time no one died.
So St.
Peter said to the Lord , `` Lord , this thing must not go on.
People no longer die ; we must go ourselves"
And they went themselves , and the Lord commanded person_0 to let Death come down.
So person_0 went at once to Death and said to him , `` Come down ,"
and Death took him directly and put an end to him.
They went away together and came to the next world , and then Gambling person_0 made straight for the door of Heaven , and knocked at it.
`` Who is there ?"
`` Gambling person_0"
`` Ah , we will have nothing to do with him ! Begone !"
So he went to the door of Purgatory , and knocked once more.
`` Who is there ?"
`` Gambling person_0"
`` Ah , there is quite enough weeping and wailing here without him.
We do not want to gamble , just go away again"
Then he went to the door of Hell , and there they let him in.
There was , however , no one at home but old Lucifer and the crooked devils who had just been doing their evil work in the world.
And no sooner was person_0 there than he sat down to gamble again.
Lucifer , however , had nothing to lose , but his mis-shapen devils , and Gambling person_0 won them from him , as with his cards he could not fail to do.
And now he was off again with his crooked devils , and they went to Hohenfuert and pulled up a hop-pole , and with it went to Heaven and began to thrust the pole against it , and Heaven began to crack.
So again St.
Peter said , `` Lord , this thing can not go on , we must let him in , or he will throw us down from Heaven"
And they let him in.
But Gambling person_0 instantly began to play again , and there was such a noise and confusion that there was no hearing what they themselves were saying.
Therefore St.
Peter once more said , `` Lord , this can not go on , we must throw him down , or he will make all Heaven rebellious"
So they went to him at once , and threw him down , and his soul broke into fragments , and went into the gambling vagabonds who are living this very day"
IN former times there lived an aged Queen who was a sorceress , and her daughter was the most beautiful maiden under the sun.
The old woman , however , had no other thought than how to lure mankind to destruction , and when a wooer appeared , she said that whosoever wished to have her daughter , must first perform a task , or die.
Many had been dazzled by the daughter 's beauty , and had actually risked this , but they never could accomplish what the old woman enjoined them to do , and then no mercy was shown ; they had to kneel down , and their heads were struck off.
A certain King 's son who had also heard of the maiden 's beauty , said to his father , `` Let me go there , I want to demand her in marriage"
`` Never ,"
answered the King ; `` if you were to go , it would be going to your death"
On this the son lay down and was sick unto death , and for seven years he lay there , and no physician could heal him.
When the father perceived that all hope was over , with a heavy heart he said to him , `` Go thither , and try your luck , for I know no other means of curing you"
When the son heard that , he rose from his bed and was well again , and joyfully set out on his way.
And it came to pass that as he was riding across a heath , he saw from afar something like a great heap of hay lying on the ground , and when he drew nearer , he could see that it was the stomach of a man , who had laid himself down there , but the stomach looked like a small mountain.
When the fat man saw the traveller , he stood up and said , `` If you are in need of any one , take me into your service"
The prince answered , `` What can I do with such a great big man ?"
`` Oh ,"
said the Stout person_0 , `` this is nothing , when I stretch myself out well , I am three thousand times fatter"
`` If that 's the case ,"
said the prince , `` I can make use of thee , come with me"
So the Stout person_0 followed the prince , and after a while they found another man who was lying on the ground with his ear laid to the turf.
`` What art thou doing there ?"
asked the King 's son.
`` I am listening ,"
replied the man.
`` What art thou listening to so attentively ?"
`` I am listening to what is just going on in the world , for nothing escapes my ears ; I even hear the grass growing"
`` Tell me ,"
said the prince , `` what thou hearest at the court of the old Queen who has the beautiful daughter"
Then he answered , `` I hear the whizzing of the sword that is striking off a wooer 's head"
The King 's son said , `` I can make use of thee , come with me"
They went onwards , and then saw a pair of feet lying and part of a pair of legs , but could not see the rest of the body.
When they had walked on for a great distance , they came to the body , and at last to the head also.
`` Why ,"
said the prince , `` what a tall rascal thou art !"
`` Oh ,"
replied the Tall person_0 , `` that is nothing at all yet ; when I really stretch out my limbs , I am three thousand times as tall , and taller than the highest mountain on earth.
I will gladly enter your service , if you will take me"
`` Come with me ,"
said the prince , `` I can make use of thee"
They went onwards and found a man sitting by the road who had bound up his eyes.
The prince said to him , `` Hast thou weak eyes , that thou canst not look at the light ?"
`` No ,"
replied the man , `` but I must not remove the bandage , for whatsoever I look at with my eyes , splits to pieces , my glance is so powerful.
If you can use that , I shall be glad to serve you"
`` Come with me ,"
replied the King 's son , `` I can make use of thee"
They journeyed onwards and found a man who was lying in the hot sunshine , trembling and shivering all over his body , so that not a limb was still.
`` How canst thou shiver when the sun is shining so warm ?"
said the King 's son.
`` Alack ,"
replied the man , `` I am of quite a different nature.
The hotter it is , the colder I am , and the frost pierces through all my bones ; and the colder it is , the hotter I am.
In the midst of ice , I can not endure the heat , nor in the midst of fire , the cold"
`` Thou art a strange fellow ,"
said the prince , `` but if thou wilt enter my service , follow me"
They traveled onwards , and saw a man standing who made a long neck and looked about him , and could see over all the mountains.
`` What art thou looking at so eagerly ?"
said the King 's son.
The man replied , `` I have such sharp eyes that I can see into every forest and field , and hill and valley , all over the world"
The prince said , `` Come with me if thou wilt , for I am still in want of such an one"
And now the King 's son and his six servants came to the town where the aged Queen dwelt.
He did not tell her who he was , but said , `` If you will give me your beautiful daughter , I will perform any task you set me"
The sorceress was delighted to get such a handsome youth as this into her net , and said , `` I will set thee three tasks , and if thou art able to perform them all , thou shalt be husband and master of my daughter"
`` What is the first to be ?"
`` Thou shalt fetch me my ring which I have dropped into the Red Sea"
So the King 's son went home to his servants and said , `` The first task is not easy.
A ring is to be got out of the Red Sea.
Come , find some way of doing it"
Then the man with the sharp sight said , `` I will see where it is lying ,"
and looked down into the water and said , `` It is sticking there , on a pointed stone"
The Tall person_0 carried them thither , and said , `` I would soon get it out , if I could only see it"
`` Oh , is that all !"
cried the Stout person_0 , and lay down and put his mouth to the water , on which all the waves fell into it just as if it had been a whirlpool , and he drank up the whole sea till it was as dry as a meadow.
The Tall person_0 stooped down a little , and brought out the ring with his hand.
Then the King 's son rejoiced when he had the ring , and took it to the old Queen.
She was astonished , and said , `` Yes , it is the right ring.
Thou hast safely performed the first task , but now comes the second.
Dost thou see the meadow in front of my palace ? Three hundred fat oxen are feeding there , and these must thou eat , skin , hair , bones , horns and all , and down below in my cellar lie three hundred casks of wine , and these thou must drink up as well , and if one hair of the oxen , or one little drop of the wine is left , thy life will be forfeited to me"
`` May I invite no guests to this repast ?"
inquired the prince , `` no dinner is good without some company"
The old woman laughed maliciously , and replied , `` Thou mayst invite one for the sake of companionship , but no more"
The King 's son went to his servants and said to the Stout person_0 , `` Thou shalt be my guest to-day , and shalt eat thy fill"
Hereupon the Stout person_0 stretched himself out and ate the three hundred oxen without leaving one single hair , and then he asked if he was to have nothing but his breakfast.
He drank the wine straight from the casks without feeling any need of a glass , and he licked the last drop from his finger-nails.
When the meal was over , the prince went to the old woman , and told her that the second task also was performed.
She wondered at this and said , `` No one has ever done so much before , but one task still remains ,"
and she thought to herself , `` Thou shalt not escape me , and wilt not keep thy head on thy shoulders ! This night ,"
said she , `` I will bring my daughter to thee in thy chamber , and thou shalt put thine arms round her , but when you are sitting there together , beware of falling asleep.
When twelve o'clock is striking , I will come , and if she is then no longer in thine arms , thou art lost"
The prince thought , `` The task is easy , I will most certainly keep my eyes open"
Nevertheless he called his servants , told them what the old woman had said , and remarked , `` Who knows what treachery lurks behind this ? Foresight is a good thing keep watch , and take care that the maiden does not go out of my room again"
When night fell , the old woman came with her daughter , and gave her into the princes 's arms , and then the Tall person_0 wound himself round the two in a circle , and the Stout person_0 placed himself by the door , so that no living creature could enter.
There the two sat , and the maiden spake never a word , but the moon shone through the window on her face , and the prince could behold her wondrous beauty.
He did nothing but gaze at her , and was filled with love and happiness , and his eyes never felt weary.
This lasted until eleven o'clock , when the old woman cast such a spell over all of them that they fell asleep , and at the self-same moment the maiden was carried away.
Then they all slept soundly until a quarter to twelve , when the magic lost its power , and all awoke again.
`` Oh , misery and misfortune !"
cried the prince , `` now I am lost !"
The faithful servants also began to lament , but the Listener said , `` Be quiet , I want to listen"
Then he listened for an instant and said , `` She is on a rock , three hundred leagues from hence , bewailing her fate.
Thou alone , Tall person_0 , canst help her ; if thou wilt stand up , thou wilt be there in a couple of steps"
`` Yes ,"
answered the Tall person_0 , `` but the one with the sharp eyes must go with me , that we may destroy the rock"
Then the Tall person_0 took the one with bandaged eyes on his back , and in the twinkling of an eye they were on the enchanted rock.
The Tall person_0 immediately took the bandage from the other 's eyes , and he did but look round , and the rock shivered into a thousand pieces.
Then the Tall person_0 took the maiden in his arms , carried her back in a second , then fetched his companion with the same rapidity , and before it struck twelve they were all sitting as they had sat before , quite merrily and happily.
When twelve struck , the aged sorceress came stealing in with a malicious face , which seemed to say , `` Now he is mine !"
for she believed that her daughter was on the rock three hundred leagues off.
But when she saw her in the prince 's arms , she was alarmed , and said , `` Here is one who knows more than I do !"
She dared not make any opposition , and was forced to give him her daughter.
But she whispered in her ear , `` It is a disgrace to thee to have to obey common people , and that thou art not allowed to choose a husband to thine own liking"
On this the proud heart of the maiden was filled with anger , and she meditated revenge.
Next morning she caused three hundred great bundles of wood to be got together , and said to the prince that though the three tasks were performed , she would still not be his wife until some one was ready to seat himself in the midst of the wood , and bear the fire.
She thought that none of his servants would let themselves be burnt for him , and that out of love for her , he himself would place himself upon it , and then she would be free.
But the servants said , `` Every one of us has done something except the Frosty person_0 , he must set to work ,"
and they put him in the middle of the pile , and set fire to it.
Then the fire began to burn , and burnt for three days until all the wood was consumed , and when the flames had burnt out , the Frosty person_0 was standing amid the ashes , trembling like an aspen leaf , and saying , `` I never felt such a frost during the whole course of my life ; if it had lasted much longer , I should have been benumbed !"
As no other pretext was to be found , the beautiful maiden was now forced to take the unknown youth as a husband.
But when they drove away to church , the old woman said , `` I can not endure the disgrace ,"
and sent her warriors after them with orders to cut down all who opposed them , and bring back her daughter.
But the Listener had sharpened his ears , and heard the secret discourse of the old woman.
`` What shall we do ?"
said he to the Stout person_0.
But he knew what to do , and spat out once or twice behind the carriage some of the sea-water which he had drunk , and a great sea arose in which the warriors were caught and drowned.
When the sorceress perceived that , she sent her mailed knights ; but the Listener heard the rattling of their armor , and undid the bandage from one eye of Sharp-eyes , who looked for a while rather fixedly at the enemy 's troops , on which they all sprang to pieces like glass.
Then the youth and the maiden went on their way undisturbed , and when the two had been blessed in church , the six servants took leave , and said to their master , `` Your wishes are now satisfied , you need us no longer , we will go our way and seek our fortunes"
Half a league from the palace of the prince 's father was a village near which a swineherd tended his herd , and when they came thither the prince said to his wife , `` Do you know who I really am ? I am no prince , but a herder of swine , and the man who is there with that herd , is my father.
We two shall have to set to work also , and help him"
Then he alighted with her at the inn , and secretly told the innkeepers to take away her royal apparel during the night.
So when she awoke in the morning , she had nothing to put on , and the innkeeper 's wife gave her an old gown and a pair of worsted stockings , and at the same time seemed to consider it a great present , and said , `` If it were not for the sake of your husband I should have given you nothing at all !"
Then the princess believed that he really was a swineherd , and tended the herd with him , and thought to herself , `` I have deserved this for my haughtiness and pride"
This lasted for a week , and then she could endure it no longer , for she had sores on her feet.
And now came a couple of people who asked if she knew who her husband was.
`` Yes ,"
she answered , `` he is a swineherd , and has just gone out with cords and ropes to try to drive a little bargain"
But they said , `` Just come with us , and we will take you to him ,"
and they took her up to the palace , and when she entered the hall , there stood her husband in kingly raiment.
But she did not recognize him until he took her in his arms , kissed her , and said , `` I suffered much for thee and now thou , too , hast had to suffer for me"
And then the wedding was celebrated , and he who has told you all this , wishes that he , too , had been present at it"
Long , long ago in Kyoto , the people of the city were terrified by accounts of a dreadful ogre , who , it was said , haunted the Gate of Rashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by.
The missing victims were never seen again , so it was whispered that the ogre was a horrible cannibal , who not only killed the unhappy victims but ate them also.
Now everybody in the town and neighborhood was in great fear , and no one durst venture out after sunset near the Gate of Rashomon.
Now at this time there lived in Kyoto a general named Raiko , who had made himself famous for his brave deeds.
Some time before this he made the country ring with his name , for he had attacked Oeyama , where a band of ogres lived with their chief , who instead of wine drank the blood of human beings.
He had routed them all and cut off the head of the chief monster.
This brave warrior was always followed by a band of faithful knights.
In this band there were five knights of great valor.
One evening as the five knights sat at a feast quaffing SAKE in their rice bowls and eating all kinds of fish , raw , and stewed , and broiled , and toasting each other 's healths and exploits , the first knight , Hojo , said to the others : `` Have you all heard the rumor that every evening after sunset there comes an ogre to the Gate of Rashomon , and that he seizes all who pass by ?"
The second knight , person_0 , answered him , saying : `` Do not talk such nonsense ! All the ogres were killed by our chief Raiko at Oeyama ! It can not be true , because even if any ogres did escape from that great killing they would not dare to show themselves in this city , for they know that our brave master would at once attack them if he knew that any of them were still alive !"
`` Then do you disbelieve what I say , and think that I am telling you a falsehood ?"
`` No , I do not think that you are telling a lie ,"
said person_0 ; `` but you have heard some old woman 's story which is not worth believing"
`` Then the best plan is to prove what I say , by going there yourself and finding out yourself whether it is true or not ,"
said Hojo.
person_0 , the second knight , could not bear the thought that his companion should believe he was afraid , so he answered quickly : `` Of course , I will go at once and find out for myself !"
So person_0 at once got ready to go -- he buckled on his long sword and put on a coat of armor , and tied on his large helmet.
When he was ready to start he said to the others : `` Give me something so that I can prove I have been there !"
Then one of the men got a roll of writing paper and his box of Indian ink and brushes , and the four comrades wrote their names on a piece of paper.
`` I will take this ,"
said person_0 , `` and put it on the Gate of Rashomon , so to-morrow morning will you all go and look at it ? I may be able to catch an ogre or two by then !"
and he mounted his horse and rode off gallantly.
It was a very dark night , and there was neither moon nor star to light person_0 on his way.
To make the darkness worse a storm came on , the rain fell heavily and the wind howled like wolves in the mountains.
Any ordinary man would have trembled at the thought of going out of doors , but person_0 was a brave warrior and dauntless , and his honor and word were at stake , so he sped on into the night , while his companions listened to the sound of his horse 's hoofs dying away in the distance , then shut the sliding shutters close and gathered round the charcoal fire and wondered what would happen -- and whether their comrade would encounter one of those horrible Oni.
At last person_0 reached the Gate of Rashomon , but peer as he might through the darkness he could see no sign of an ogre.
`` It is just as I thought ,"
said person_0 to himself ; `` there are certainly no ogres here ; it is only an old woman 's story.
I will stick this paper on the gate so that the others can see I have been here when they come to-morrow , and then I will take my way home and laugh at them all"
He fastened the piece of paper , signed by all his four companions , on the gate , and then turned his horse 's head towards home.
As he did so he became aware that some one was behind him , and at the same time a voice called out to him to wait.
Then his helmet was seized from the back.
`` Who are you ?"
said person_0 fearlessly.
He then put out his hand and groped around to find out who or what it was that held him by the helmet.
As he did so he touched something that felt like an arm -- it was covered with hair and as big round as the trunk of a tree ! person_0 knew at once that this was the arm of an ogre , so he drew his sword and cut at it fiercely.
There was a loud yell of pain , and then the ogre dashed in front of the warrior.
person_0 's eyes grew large with wonder , for he saw that the ogre was taller than the great gate , his eyes were flashing like mirrors in the sunlight , and his huge mouth was wide open , and as the monster breathed , flames of fire shot out of his mouth.
The ogre thought to terrify his foe , but person_0 never flinched.
He attacked the ogre with all his strength , and thus they fought face to face for a long time.
At last the ogre , finding that he could neither frighten nor beat person_0 and that he might himself be beaten , took to flight.
But person_0 , determined not to let the monster escape , put spurs to his horse and gave chase.
But though the knight rode very fast the ogre ran faster , and to his disappointment he found himself unable to overtake the monster , who was gradually lost to sight.
person_0 returned to the gate where the fierce fight had taken place , and got down from his horse.
As he did so he stumbled upon something lying on the ground.
Stooping to pick it up he found that it was one of the ogre 's huge arms which he must have slashed off in the fight.
His joy was great at having secured such a prize , for this was the best of all proofs of his adventure with the ogre.
So he took it up carefully and carried it home as a trophy of his victory.
When he got back , he showed the arm to his comrades , who one and all called him the hero of their band and gave him a great feast.
His wonderful deed was soon noised abroad in Kyoto , and people from far and near came to see the ogre 's arm.
person_0 now began to grow uneasy as to how he should keep the arm in safety , for he knew that the ogre to whom it belonged was still alive.
He felt sure that one day or other , as soon as the ogre got over his scare , he would come to try to get his arm back again.
person_0 therefore had a box made of the strongest wood and banded with iron.
In this he placed the arm , and then he sealed down the heavy lid , refusing to open it for anyone.
He kept the box in his own room and took charge of it himself , never allowing it out of his sight.
Now one night he heard some one knocking at the porch , asking for admittance.
When the servant went to the door to see who it was , there was only an old woman , very respectable in appearance.
On being asked who she was and what was her business , the old woman replied with a smile that she had been nurse to the master of the house when he was a little baby.
If the lord of the house were at home she begged to be allowed to see him.
The servant left the old woman at the door and went to tell his master that his old nurse had come to see him.
person_0 thought it strange that she should come at that time of night , but at the thought of his old nurse , who had been like a foster-mother to him and whom he had not seen for a long time , a very tender feeling sprang up for her in his heart.
He ordered the servant to show her in.
The old woman was ushered into the room , and after the customary bows and greetings were over , she said : `` Master , the report of your brave fight with the ogre at the Gate of Rashomon is so widely known that even your poor old nurse has heard of it.
Is it really true , what every one says , that you cut off one of the ogre 's arms ? If you did , your deed is highly to be praised !"
`` I was very disappointed ,"
said person_0 , `` that I was not able take the monster captive , which was what I wished to do , instead of only cutting off an arm !"
`` I am very proud to think ,"
answered the old woman , `` that my master was so brave as to dare to cut off an ogre 's arm.
There is nothing that can be compared to your courage.
Before I die it is the great wish of my life to see this arm ,"
she added pleadingly.
`` No ,"
said person_0 , `` I am sorry , but I can not grant your request"
`` But why ?"
asked the old woman.
`` Because ,"
replied person_0 , `` ogres are very revengeful creatures , and if I open the box there is no telling but that the ogre may suddenly appear and carry off his arm.
I have had a box made on purpose with a very strong lid , and in this box I keep the ogre 's arm secure ; and I never show it to any one , whatever happens"
`` Your precaution is very reasonable ,"
said the old woman.
`` But I am your old nurse , so surely you will not refuse to show ME the arm.
I have only just heard of your brave act , and not being able to wait till the morning I came at once to ask you to show it to me"
person_0 was very troubled at the old woman 's pleading , but he still persisted in refusing.
Then the old woman said : `` Do you suspect me of being a spy sent by the ogre ?"
`` No , of course I do not suspect you of being the ogre 's spy , for you are my old nurse ,"
answered person_0.
`` Then you can not surely refuse to show me the arm any longer"
entreated the old woman ; `` for it is the great wish of my heart to see for once in my life the arm of an ogre !"
person_0 could not hold out in his refusal any longer , so he gave in at last , saying : `` Then I will show you the ogre 's arm , since you so earnestly wish to see it.
Come , follow me !"
and he led the way to his own room , the old woman following.
When they were both in the room person_0 shut the door carefully , and then going towards a big box which stood in a corner of the room , he took off the heavy lid.
He then called to the old woman to come near and look in , for he never took the arm out of the box.
`` What is it like ? Let me have a good look at it ,"
said the old nurse , with a joyful face.
She came nearer and nearer , as if she were afraid , till she stood right against the box.
Suddenly she plunged her hand into the box and seized the arm , crying with a fearful voice which made the room shake : `` Oh , joy ! I have got my arm back again !"
And from an old woman she was suddenly transformed into the towering figure of the frightful ogre ! person_0 sprang back and was unable to move for a moment , so great was his astonishment ; but recognizing the ogre who had attacked him at the Gate of Rashomon , he determined with his usual courage to put an end to him this time.
He seized his sword , drew it out of its sheath in a flash , and tried to cut the ogre down.
So quick was person_0 that the creature had a narrow escape.
But the ogre sprang up to the ceiling , and bursting through the roof , disappeared in the mist and clouds.
In this way the ogre escaped with his arm.
The knight gnashed his teeth with disappointment , but that was all he could do.
He waited in patience for another opportunity to dispatch the ogre.
But the latter was afraid of person_0 's great strength and daring , and never troubled Kyoto again.
So once more the people of the city were able to go out without fear even at night time , and the brave deeds of person_0 have never been forgotten !"
I will tell you a story which was told to me when I was a little boy.
Every time I thought of the story , it seemed to me to become more and more charming ; for it is with stories as it is with many people -- they become better as they grow older.
I take it for granted that you have been in the country , and seen a very old farmhouse with a thatched roof , and mosses and small plants growing wild upon the thatch.
There is a stork 's nest on the summit of the gable ; for we ca n't do without the stork.
The walls of the house are sloping , and the windows are low , and only one of the latter is made so that it will open.
The baking-oven sticks out of the wall like a little fat body.
The elder tree hangs over the paling , and beneath its branches , at the foot of the paling , is a pool of water in which a few ducks are disporting themselves.
There is a yard-dog too , who barks at all comers.
Just such a farmhouse stood out in the country ; and in this house dwelt an old couple -- a peasant and his wife.
Small as was their property , there was one article among it that they could do without -- a horse , which made a living out of the grass it found by the side of the high-road.
The old peasant rode into the town on this horse ; and often his neighbors borrowed it of him , and rendered the old couple some service in return for the loan of it.
But they thought it would be best if they sold the horse , or exchanged it for something that might be more useful to them.
But what might this _ something _ be ? `` You 'll know that best , old man ,"
said the wife.
`` It is fair-day to-day , so ride into town , and get rid of the horse for money , or make a good exchange : whichever you do will be right to me.
Ride to the fair"
And she fastened his neckerchief for him , for she could do that better than he could ; and she tied it in a double bow , for she could do that very prettily.
Then she brushed his hat round and round with the palm of her hand , and gave him a kiss.
So he rode away upon the horse that was to be sold or to be bartered for something else.
Yes , the old man knew what he was about.
The sun shone hotly down , and not a cloud was to be seen in the sky.
The road was very dusty , for many people who were all bound for the fair were driving , or riding , or walking upon it.
There was no shelter anywhere from the sunbeams.
Among the rest , a man was trudging along , and driving a cow to the fair.
The cow was as beautiful a creature as any cow can be.
`` She gives good milk , I 'm sure ,"
said the peasant.
`` That would be a very good exchange -- the cow for the horse.
`` Hallo , you there with the cow !"
he said ; `` I tell you what -- I fancy a horse costs more than a cow , but I do n't care for that ; a cow would be more useful to me.
If you like , we 'll exchange"
`` To be sure I will ,"
said the man ; and they exchanged accordingly.
So that was settled , and the peasant might have turned back , for he had done the business he came to do ; but as he had once made up his mind to go to the fair , he determined to proceed , merely to have a look at it ; and so he went on to the town with his cow.
Leading the animal , he strode sturdily on ; and after a short time , he overtook a man who was driving a sheep.
It was a good fat sheep , with a fine fleece on its back.
`` I should like to have that fellow ,"
said our peasant to himself.
`` He would find plenty of grass by our palings , and in the winter we could keep him in the room with us.
Perhaps it would be more practical to have a sheep instead of a cow.
Shall we exchange ?"
The man with the sheep was quite ready , and the bargain was struck.
So our peasant went on in the high-road with his sheep.
Soon he overtook another man , who came into the road from a field , carrying a great goose under his arm.
`` That 's a heavy thing you have there.
It has plenty of feathers and plenty of fat , and would look well tied to a string , and paddling in the water at our place.
That would be something for my old woman ; she could make all kinds of profit out of it.
How often she has said , ` If we only had a goose ! ' Now , perhaps , she can have one ; and , if possible , it shall be hers.
Shall we exchange ? I 'll give you my sheep for your goose , and thank you into the bargain"
The other man had not the least objection ; and accordingly they exchanged , and our peasant became proprietor of the goose.
By this time he was very near the town.
The crowd on the high-road became greater and greater ; there was quite a crush of men and cattle.
They walked in the road , and close by the palings ; and at the barrier they even walked into the toll-man 's potato-field , where his one fowl was strutting about , with a string to its leg , lest it should take fright at the crowd , and stray away , and so be lost.
This fowl had short tail-feathers , and winked with both its eyes , and looked very cunning.
`` Cluck , cluck !"
said the fowl.
What it thought when it said this I can not tell you ; but directly our good man saw it , he thought , `` That 's the finest fowl I 've ever seen in my life ! Why , it 's finer than our parson 's brood hen.
On my word , I should like to have that fowl.
A fowl can always find a grain or two , and can almost keep itself.
I think it would be a good exchange if I could get that for my goose.
`` Shall we exchange ?"
he asked the toll-taker.
`` Exchange !"
repeated the man ; `` well , that would not be a bad thing"
And so they exchanged ; the toll-taker at the barrier kept the goose , and the peasant carried away the fowl.
Now , he had done a good deal of business on his way to the fair , and he was hot and tired.
He wanted something to eat , and a glass of brandy to drink ; and soon he was in front of the inn.
He was just about to step in , when the hostler came out , so they met at the door.
The hostler was carrying a sack.
`` What have you in that sack ?"
asked the peasant.
`` Rotten apples ,"
answered the hostler ; `` a whole sackful of them -- enough to feed the pigs with"
-LRB- Illustration : THE OLD MAN RELATES HIS SUCCESS.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Why , that 's terrible waste ! I should like to take them to my old woman at home.
Last year the old tree by the turf-hole only bore a single apple , and we kept it on the cupboard till it was quite rotten and spoilt.
` It was always property , ' my old woman said ; but here she could see a quantity of property -- a whole sackful.
Yes , I shall be glad to show them to her"
`` What will you give me for the sackful ?"
asked the hostler.
`` What will I give ? I will give my fowl in exchange"
And he gave the fowl accordingly , and received the apples , which he carried into the guest-room.
He leaned the sack carefully by the stove , and then went to the table.
But the stove was hot : he had not thought of that.
Many guests were present -- horse dealers , ox-herds , and two person_0 -- and the two person_0 were so rich that their pockets bulged out with gold coins , and almost burst ; and they could bet too , as you shall hear.
Hiss-s-s ! hiss-s-s ! What was that by the stove ? The apples were beginning to roast ! `` What is that ?"
`` Why , do you know -- ,"
said our peasant.
And he told the whole story of the horse that he had changed for a cow , and all the rest of it , down to the apples.
`` Well , your old woman will give it you well when you get home !"
said one of the two person_0.
`` There will be a disturbance"
`` What ? -- give me what ?"
said the peasant.
`` She will kiss me , and say , ` What the old man does is always right.
'"
`` Shall we wager ?"
said the Englishman.
`` We 'll wager coined gold by the ton -- a hundred pounds to the hundredweight !"
`` A bushel will be enough ,"
replied the peasant.
`` I can only set the bushel of apples against it ; and I 'll throw myself and my old woman into the bargain -- and I fancy that 's piling up the measure"
`` Done -- taken !"
And the bet was made.
The host 's carriage came up , and the person_0 got in , and the peasant got in ; away they went , and soon they stopped before the peasant 's hut.
`` Good evening , old woman"
`` Good evening , old man"
`` I 've made the exchange"
`` Yes , you understand what you 're about ,"
said the woman.
And she embraced him , and paid no attention to the stranger guests , nor did she notice the sack.
`` I got a cow in exchange for the horse ,"
said he.
`` Heaven be thanked !"
said she.
`` What glorious milk we shall have , and butter and cheese on the table ! That was a capital exchange !"
`` Yes , but I changed the cow for a sheep"
`` Ah , that 's better still !"
cried the wife.
`` You always think of everything : we have just pasture enough for a sheep.
Ewe 's - milk and cheese , and woollen jackets and stockings ! The cow can not give those , and her hairs will only come off.
How you think of everything !"
`` But I changed away the sheep for a goose"
`` Then this year we shall really have roast goose to eat , my dear old man.
You are always thinking of something to give me pleasure.
How charming that is ! We can let the goose walk about with a string to her leg , and she 'll grow fatter still before we roast her"
`` But I gave away the goose for a fowl ,"
said the man.
`` A fowl ? That was a good exchange !"
replied the woman.
`` The fowl will lay eggs and hatch them , and we shall have chickens : we shall have a whole poultry-yard ! Oh , that 's just what I was wishing for"
`` Yes , but I exchanged the fowl for a sack of shrivelled apples"
`` What ! -- I must positively kiss you for that ,"
exclaimed the wife.
`` My dear , good husband ! Now , I 'll tell you something.
Do you know , you had hardly left me this morning , before I began thinking how I could give you something very nice this evening.
I thought it should be pancakes with savoury herbs.
I had eggs , and bacon too ; but I wanted herbs.
So I went over to the schoolmaster 's -- they have herbs there , I know -- but the schoolmistress is a mean woman , though she looks so sweet.
I begged her to lend me a handful of herbs.
` Lend ! ' she answered me ; ` nothing at all grows in our garden , not even a shrivelled apple.
I could not even lend you a shrivelled apple , my dear woman.
' But now _ I _ can lend _ her _ ten , or a whole sackful.
That I 'm very glad of ; that makes me laugh !"
And with that she gave him a sounding kiss.
`` I like that !"
exclaimed both the person_0 together.
`` Always going down-hill , and always merry ; that 's worth the money"
So they paid a hundredweight of gold to the peasant , who was not scolded , but kissed.
Yes , it always pays , when the wife sees and always asserts that her husband knows best , and that whatever he does is right.
You see , that is my story.
I heard it when I was a child ; and now you have heard it too , and know that `` What the old man does is always right"
There was once a King who had an illness , and no one believed that he would come out of it with his life.
He had three sons who were much distressed about it , and went down into the palace-garden and wept.
There they met an old man who inquired as to the cause of their grief.
They told him that their father was so ill that he would most certainly die , for nothing seemed to cure him.
Then the old man said , `` I know of one more remedy , and that is the water of life ; if he drinks of it he will become well again ; but it is hard to find"
The eldest said , `` I will manage to find it ,"
and went to the sick King , and begged to be allowed to go forth in search of the water of life , for that alone could save him.
`` No ,"
said the King , `` the danger of it is too great.
I would rather die"
But he begged so long that the King consented.
The prince thought in his heart , `` If I bring the water , then I shall be best beloved of my father , and shall inherit the kingdom"
So he set out , and when he had ridden forth a little distance , a dwarf stood there in the road who called to him and said , `` Whither away so fast ?"
`` Silly shrimp ,"
said the prince , very haughtily , `` it is nothing to do with you ,"
and rode on.
But the little dwarf had grown angry , and had wished an evil wish.
Soon after this the prince entered a ravine , and the further he rode the closer the mountains drew together , and at last the road became so narrow that he could not advance a step further ; it was impossible either to turn his horse or to dismount from the saddle , and he was shut in there as if in prison.
The sick King waited long for him , but he came not.
Then the second son said , `` Father , let me go forth to seek the water ,"
and thought to himself , `` If my brother is dead , then the kingdom will fall to me"
At first the King would not allow him to go either , but at last he yielded , so the prince set out on the same road that his brother had taken , and he too met the dwarf , who stopped him to ask , whither he was going in such haste ? `` Little shrimp ,"
said the prince , `` that is nothing to thee ,"
and rode on without giving him another look.
But the dwarf bewitched him , and he , like the other , rode into a ravine , and could neither go forwards nor backwards.
So fare haughty people.
As the second son also remained away , the youngest begged to be allowed to go forth to fetch the water , and at last the King was obliged to let him go.
When he met the dwarf and the latter asked him whither he was going in such haste , he stopped , gave him an explanation , and said , `` I am seeking the water of life , for my father is sick unto death"
`` Dost thou know , then , where that is to be found ?"
`` No ,"
said the prince.
`` As thou hast borne thyself as is seemly , and not haughtily like thy false brothers , I will give thee the information and tell thee how thou mayst obtain the water of life.
It springs from a fountain in the courtyard of an enchanted castle , but thou wilt not be able to make thy way to it , if I do not give thee an iron wand and two small loaves of bread.
Strike thrice with the wand on the iron door of the castle and it will spring open : inside lie two lions with gaping jaws , but if thou throwest a loaf to each of them , they will be quieted.
Then hasten to fetch some of the water of life before the clock strikes twelve , else the door will shut again , and thou wilt be imprisoned"
The prince thanked him , took the wand and the bread , and set out on his way.
When he arrived , everything was as the dwarf had said.
The door sprang open at the third stroke of the wand , and when he had appeased the lions with the bread , he entered the castle , and came to a large and splendid hall , wherein sat some enchanted princes whose rings he drew off their fingers.
A sword and a loaf of bread were lying there , which he carried away.
After this , he entered a chamber , in which was a beautiful maiden who rejoiced when she saw him , kissed him , and told him that he had delivered her , and should have the whole of her kingdom , and that if he would return in a year their wedding should be celebrated ; likewise she told him where the spring of the water of life was , and that he was to hasten and draw some of it before the clock struck twelve.
Then he went onwards , and at last entered a room where there was a beautiful newly-made bed , and as he was very weary , he felt inclined to rest a little.
So he lay down and fell asleep.
When he awoke , it was striking a quarter to twelve.
He sprang up in a fright , ran to the spring , drew some water in a cup which stood near , and hastened away.
But just as he was passing through the iron door , the clock struck twelve , and the door fell to with such violence that it carried away a piece of his heel.
He , however , rejoicing at having obtained the water of life , went homewards , and again passed the dwarf.
When the latter saw the sword and the loaf , he said , `` With these thou hast won great wealth ; with the sword thou canst slay whole armies , and the bread will never come to an end"
But the prince would not go home to his father without his brothers , and said , `` Dear dwarf , canst thou not tell me where my two brothers are ? They went out before I did in search of the water of life , and have not returned"
`` They are imprisoned between two mountains ,"
said the dwarf.
`` I have condemned them to stay there , because they were so haughty"
Then the prince begged until the dwarf released them ; but he warned him , however , and said , `` Beware of them , for they have bad hearts"
When his brothers came , he rejoiced , and told them how things had gone with him , that he had found the water of life and had brought a cupful away with him , and had rescued a beautiful princess , who was willing to wait a year for him , and then their wedding was to be celebrated and he would obtain a great kingdom.
After that they rode on together , and chanced upon a land where war and famine reigned , and the King already thought he must perish , for the scarcity was so great.
Then the prince went to him and gave him the loaf , wherewith he fed and satisfied the whole of his kingdom , and then the prince gave him the sword also wherewith he slew the hosts of his enemies , and could now live in rest and peace.
The prince then took back his loaf and his sword , and the three brothers rode on.
But after this they entered two more countries where war and famine reigned and each time the prince gave his loaf and his sword to the Kings , and had now delivered three kingdoms , and after that they went on board a ship and sailed over the sea.
During the passage , the two eldest conversed apart and said , `` The youngest has found the water of life and not we , for that our father will give him the kingdom the kingdom which belongs to us , and he will rob us of all our fortune"
They then began to seek revenge , and plotted with each other to destroy him.
They waited until they found him fast asleep , then they poured the water of life out of the cup , and took it for themselves , but into the cup they poured salt sea-water.
Now therefore , when they arrived home , the youngest took his cup to the sick King in order that he might drink out of it , and be cured.
But scarcely had he drunk a very little of the salt sea-water than he became still worse than before.
And as he was lamenting over this , the two eldest brothers came , and accused the youngest of having intended to poison him , and said that they had brought him the true water of life , and handed it to him.
He had scarcely tasted it , when he felt his sickness departing , and became strong and healthy as in the days of his youth.
After that they both went to the youngest , mocked him , and said , `` You certainly found the water of life , but you have had the pain , and we the gain ; you should have been sharper , and should have kept your eyes open.
We took it from you whilst you were asleep at sea , and when a year is over , one of us will go and fetch the beautiful princess.
But beware that you do not disclose aught of this to our father ; indeed he does not trust you , and if you say a single word , you shall lose your life into the bargain , but if you keep silent , you shall have it as a gift"
The old King was angry with his youngest son , and thought he had plotted against his life.
So he summoned the court together and had sentence pronounced upon his son , that he should be secretly shot.
And once when the prince was riding forth to the chase , suspecting no evil , the King 's huntsman had to go with him , and when they were quite alone in the forest , the huntsman looked so sorrowful that the prince said to him , `` Dear huntsman , what ails you ?"
The huntsman said , `` I can not tell you , and yet I ought"
Then the prince said , `` Say openly what it is , I will pardon you"
`` Alas !"
said the huntsman , `` I am to shoot you dead , the King has ordered me to do it"
Then the prince was shocked , and said , `` Dear huntsman , let me live ; there , I give you my royal garments ; give me your common ones in their stead"
The huntsman said , `` I will willingly do that , indeed I should not have been able to shoot you"
Then they exchanged clothes , and the huntsman returned home ; the prince , however , went further into the forest.
After a time three waggons of gold and precious stones came to the King for his youngest son , which were sent by the three Kings who had slain their enemies with the prince 's sword , and maintained their people with his bread , and who wished to show their gratitude for it.
The old King then thought , `` Can my son have been innocent ?"
and said to his people , `` Would that he were still alive , how it grieves me that I have suffered him to be killed !"
`` He still lives ,"
said the huntsman , `` I could not find it in my heart to carry out your command ,"
and told the King how it had happened.
Then a stone fell from the King 's heart , and he had it proclaimed in every country that his son might return and be taken into favor again.
The princess , however , had a road made up to her palace which was quite bright and golden , and told her people that whosoever came riding straight along it to her , would be the right wooer and was to be admitted , and whoever rode by the side of it , was not the right one , and was not to be admitted.
As the time was now close at hand , the eldest thought he would hasten to go to the King 's daughter , and give himself out as her deliverer , and thus win her for his bride , and the kingdom to boot.
Therefore he rode forth , and when he arrived in front of the palace , and saw the splendid golden road , he thought , it would be a sin and a shame if he were to ride over that , and turned aside , and rode on the right side of it.
But when he came to the door , the servants told him that he was not the right man , and was to go away again.
Soon after this the second prince set out , and when he came to the golden road , and his horse had put one foot on it , he thought , it would be a sin and a shame to tread a piece of it off , and he turned aside and rode on the left side of it , and when he reached the door , the attendants told him he was not the right one , and he was to go away again.
When at last the year had entirely expired , the third son likewise wished to ride out of the forest to his beloved , and with her forget his sorrows.
So he set out and thought of her so incessantly , and wished to be with her so much , that he never noticed the golden road at all.
So his horse rode onwards up the middle of it , and when he came to the door , it was opened and the princess received him with joy , and said he was her deliverer , and lord of the kingdom , and their wedding was celebrated with great rejoicing.
When it was over she told him that his father invited him to come to him , and had forgiven him.
So he rode thither , and told him everything ; how his brothers had betrayed him , and how he had nevertheless kept silence.
The old King wished to punish them , but they had put to sea , and never came back as long as they lived"
There were once a man and a woman who had an only child , and lived quite alone in a solitary valley.
It came to pass that the mother once went into the wood to gather branches of fir , and took with her little person_0 , who was just two years old.
As it was spring-time , and the child took pleasure in the many-coloured flowers , she went still further onwards with him into the forest.
Suddenly two robbers sprang out of the thicket , seized the mother and child , and carried them far away into the black forest , where no one ever came from one year 's end to another.
The poor woman urgently begged the robbers to set her and her child free , but their hearts were made of stone , they would not listen to her prayers and entreaties , and drove her on farther by force.
After they had worked their way through bushes and briars for about two miles , they came to a rock where there was a door , at which the robbers knocked and it opened at once.
They had to go through a long dark passage , and at last came into a great cavern , which was lighted by a fire which burnt on the hearth.
On the wall hung swords , sabres , and other deadly weapons which gleamed in the light , and in the midst stood a black table at which four other robbers were sitting gambling , and the captain sat at the head of it.
As soon as he saw the woman he came and spoke to her , and told her to be at ease and have no fear , they would do nothing to hurt her , but she must look after the house-keeping , and if she kept everything in order , she should not fare ill with them.
Thereupon they gave her something to eat , and showed her a bed where she might sleep with her child.
The woman stayed many years with the robbers , and person_0 grew tall and strong.
His mother told him stories , and taught him to read an old book of tales about knights which she found in the cave.
When person_0 was nine years old , he made himself a strong club out of a branch of fir , hid it behind the bed , and then went to his mother and said , `` Dear mother , pray tell me who is my father ; I must and will know"
His mother was silent and would not tell him , that he might not become home-sick ; moreover she knew that the godless robbers would not let him go away , but it almost broke her heart that person_0 should not go to his father.
In the night , when the robbers came home from their robbing expedition , person_0 brought out his club , stood before the captain , and said , `` I now wish to know who is my father , and if thou dost not at once tell me I will strike thee down"
Then the captain laughed , and gave person_0 such a box on the ear that he rolled under the table.
person_0 got up again , held his tongue , and thought , `` I will wait another year and then try again , perhaps I shall do better then"
When the year was over , he brought out his club again , rubbed the dust off it , looked at it well , and said , `` It is a stout strong club"
At night the robbers came home , drank one jug of wine after another , and their heads began to be heavy.
Then person_0 brought out his club , placed himself before the captain , and asked him who was his father ? But the captain again gave him such a vigorous box on the ear that person_0 rolled under the table , but it was not long before he was up again , and beat the captain and the robbers so with his club , that they could no longer move either their arms or their legs.
His mother stood in a corner full of admiration of his bravery and strength.
When person_0 had done his work , he went to his mother , and said , `` Now I have shown myself to be in earnest , but now I must also know who is my father"
`` Dear person_0 ,"
answered the mother , `` come , we will go and seek him until we find him"
She took from the captain the key to the entrance-door , and person_0 fetched a great meal-sack and packed into it gold and silver , and whatsoever else he could find that was beautiful , until it was full , and then he took it on his back.
They left the cave , but how person_0 did open his eyes when he came out of the darkness into daylight , and saw the green forest , and the flowers , and the birds , and the morning sun in the sky.
He stood there and wondered at everything just as if he had not been very wise.
His mother looked for the way home , and when they had walked for a couple of hours , they got safely into their lonely valley and to their little house.
The father was sitting in the doorway.
He wept for joy when he recognized his wife and heard that person_0 was his son , for he had long regarded them both as dead.
But person_0 , although he was not twelve years old , was a head taller than his father.
They went into the little room together , but person_0 had scarcely put his sack on the bench by the stove , than the whole house began to crack the bench broke down and then the floor , and the heavy sack fell through into the cellar.
`` God save us !"
cried the father , `` what 's that ? Now thou hast broken our little house to pieces !"
`` Do n't grow any gray hairs about that , dear father ,"
answered person_0 ; `` there , in that sack , is more than is wanting for a new house"
The father and person_0 at once began to build a new house ; to buy cattle and land , and to keep a farm.
person_0 ploughed the fields , and when he followed the plough and pushed it into the ground , the bullocks had scarcely any need to draw.
The next spring , person_0 said , `` Keep all the money and get a walking-stick that weighs a hundred-weight made for me that I may go a-travelling"
When the wished-for stick was ready , he left his father 's house , went forth , and came to a deep , dark forest.
There he heard something crunching and cracking , looked round , and saw a fir-tree which was wound round like a rope from the bottom to the top , and when he looked upwards he saw a great fellow who had laid hold of the tree and was twisting it like a willow-wand.
`` Hollo !"
cried person_0 , `` what art thou doing up there ?"
the fellow replied , `` I got some faggots together yesterday and am twisting a rope for them"
`` That is what I like ,"
thought person_0 , `` he has some strength ,"
and he called to him , `` Leave that alone , and come with me"
The fellow came down , and he was taller by a whole head than person_0 , and person_0 was not little.
`` Thy name is now Fir-twister ,"
said person_0 to him.
Thereupon they went further and heard something knocking and hammering with such force that the ground shook at every stroke.
Shortly afterwards they came to a mighty rock , before which a giant was standing and striking great pieces of it away with his fist.
When person_0 asked what he was about , he answered , `` At night , when I want to sleep , bears , wolves , and other vermin of that kind come , which sniff and snuffle about me and wo n't let me rest ; so I want to build myself a house and lay myself inside it , so that I may have some peace"
`` Oh , indeed ,"
thought person_0 , `` I can make use of this one also ;"
and said to him , `` Leave thy house-building alone , and go with me ; thou shalt be called Rock-splitter"
The man consented , and they all three roamed through the forest , and wherever they went the wild beasts were terrified , and ran away from them.
In the evening they came to an old deserted castle , went up into it , and laid themselves down in the hall to sleep.
The next morning person_0 went into the garden.
It had run quite wild , and was full of thorns and bushes.
And as he was thus walking round about , a wild boar rushed at him ; he , however , gave it such a blow with his club that it fell directly.
He took it on his shoulders and carried it in , and they put it on a spit , roasted it , and enjoyed themselves.
Then they arranged that each day , in turn , two should go out hunting , and one should stay at home , and cook nine pounds of meat for each of them.
Fir-twister stayed at home the first , and person_0 and Rock-splitter went out hunting.
When Fir-twister was busy cooking , a little shrivelled-up old mannikin came to him in the castle , and asked for some meat.
`` Be off , sly hypocrite ,"
he answered , `` thou needest no meat"
But how astonished Fir-twister was when the little insignificant dwarf sprang up at him , and belaboured him so with his fists that he could not defend himself , but fell on the ground and gasped for breath ! The dwarf did not go away until he had thoroughly vented his anger on him.
When the two others came home from hunting , Fir-twister said nothing to them of the old mannikin and of the blows which he himself had received , and thought , `` When they stay at home , they may just try their chance with the little scrubbing-brush ;"
and the mere thought of that gave him pleasure already.
The next day Rock-splitter stayed at home , and he fared just as Fir-twister had done , he was very ill-treated by the dwarf because he was not willing to give him any meat.
When the others came home in the evening , Fir-twister easily saw what he had suffered , but both kept silence , and thought , `` person_0 also must taste some of that soup"
person_0 , who had to stay at home the next day , did his work in the kitchen as it had to be done , and as he was standing skimming the pan , the dwarf came and without more ado demanded a bit of meat.
Then person_0 thought , `` He is a poor wretch , I will give him some of my share , that the others may not run short ,"
and handed him a bit.
When the dwarf had devoured it , he again asked for some meat , and good-natured person_0 gave it to him , and told him it was a handsome piece , and that he was to be content with it.
But the dwarf begged again for the third time.
`` Thou art shameless !"
said person_0 , and gave him none.
Then the malicious dwarf wanted to spring on him and treat him as he had treated Fir-twister and Rock-splitter , but he had got to the wrong man.
person_0 , without exerting himself much , gave him a couple of blows which made him jump down the castle steps.
person_0 was about to run after him , but fell right over him , for he was so tall.
When he rose up again , the dwarf had got the start of him.
person_0 hurried after him as far as the forest , and saw him slip into a hole in the rock.
person_0 now went home , but he had marked the spot.
When the two others came back , they were surprised that person_0 was so well.
He told them what had happened , and then they no longer concealed how it had fared with them.
person_0 laughed and said , `` It served you quite right ; why were you so greedy with your meat ? It is a disgrace that you who are so big should have let yourselves be beaten by the dwarf"
Thereupon they took a basket and a rope , and all three went to the hole in the rock into which the dwarf had slipped , and let person_0 and his club down in the basket.
When person_0 had reached the bottom , he found a door , and when he opened it a maiden was sitting there who was lovely as any picture , nay , so beautiful that no words can express it , and by her side sat the dwarf and grinned at person_0 like a sea-cat ! She , however , was bound with chains , and looked so mournfully at him that person_0 felt great pity for her , and thought to himself , `` Thou must deliver her out of the power of the wicked dwarf ,"
and gave him such a blow with his club that he fell down dead.
Immediately the chains fell from the maiden , and person_0 was enraptured with her beauty.
She told him she was a King 's daughter whom a savage count had stolen away from her home , and imprisoned there among the rocks , because she would have nothing to say to him.
The count had , however , set the dwarf as a watchman , and he had made her bear misery and vexation enough.
And now person_0 placed the maiden in the basket and had her drawn up ; the basket came down again , but person_0 did not trust his two companions , and thought , `` They have already shown themselves to be false , and told me nothing about the dwarf ; who knows what design they may have against me ?"
So he put his club in the basket , and it was lucky he did ; for when the basket was half-way up , they let it fall again , and if person_0 had really been sitting in it he would have been killed.
But now he did not know how he was to work his way out of the depths , and when he turned it over and over in his mind he found no counsel.
`` It is indeed sad ,"
said he to himself , `` that I have to waste away down here ,"
and as he was thus walking backwards and forwards , he once more came to the little chamber where the maiden had been sitting , and saw that the dwarf had a ring on his finger which shone and sparkled.
Then he drew it off and put it on , and when he turned it round on his finger , he suddenly heard something rustle over his head.
He looked up and saw spirits of the air hovering above , who told him he was their master , and asked what his desire might be ? person_0 was at first struck dumb , but afterwards he said that they were to carry him above again.
They obeyed instantly , and it was just as if he had flown up himself.
When , however , he was above again , he found no one in sight.
Fir-twister and Rock-splitter had hurried away , and had taken the beautiful maiden with them.
But person_0 turned the ring , and the spirits of the air came and told him that the two were on the sea.
person_0 ran and ran without stopping , until he came to the sea-shore , and there far , far out on the water , he perceived a little boat in which his faithless comrades were sitting ; and in fierce anger he leapt , without thinking what he was doing , club in hand into the water , and began to swim , but the club , which weighed a hundredweight , dragged him deep down until he was all but drowned.
Then in the very nick of time he turned his ring , and immediately the spirits of the air came and bore him as swift as lightning into the boat.
He swung his club and gave his wicked comrades the reward they merited and threw them into the water , and then he sailed with the beautiful maiden , who had been in the greatest alarm , and whom he delivered for the second time , home to her father and mother , and married her , and all rejoiced exceedingly"
Hard by a great forest dwelt a wood-cutter with his wife , who had an only child , a little girl three years old.
They were so poor , however , that they no longer had daily bread , and did not know how to get food for her.
One morning the wood-cutter went out sorrowfully to his work in the forest , and while he was cutting wood , suddenly there stood before him a tall and beautiful woman with a crown of shining stars on her head , who said to him , `` I am the person_0 Mary , mother of the child Jesus.
Thou art poor and needy , bring thy child to me , I will take her with me and be her mother , and care for her"
The wood-cutter obeyed , brought his child , and gave her to the person_0 Mary , who took her up to heaven with her.
There the child fared well , ate sugar-cakes , and drank sweet milk , and her clothes were of gold , and the little angels played with her.
And when she was fourteen years of age , the person_0 Mary called her one day and said , `` Dear child , I am about to make a long journey , so take into thy keeping the keys of the thirteen doors of heaven.
Twelve of these thou mayest open , and behold the glory which is within them , but the thirteenth , to which this little key belongs , is forbidden thee.
Beware of opening it , or thou wilt bring misery on thyself"
The girl promised to be obedient , and when the person_0 Mary was gone , she began to examine the dwellings of the kingdom of heaven.
Each day she opened one of them , until she had made the round of the twelve.
In each of them sat one of the Apostles in the midst of a great light , and she rejoiced in all the magnificence and splendor , and the little angels who always accompanied her rejoiced with her.
Then the forbidden door alone remained , and she felt a great desire to know what could be hidden behind it , and said to the angels , `` I will not quite open it , and I will not go inside it , but I will unlock it so that we can just see a little through the opening"
`` Oh no ,"
said the little angels , `` that would be a sin.
The person_0 Mary has forbidden it , and it might easily cause thy unhappiness"
Then she was silent , but the desire in her heart was not stilled , but gnawed there and tormented her , and let her have no rest.
And once when the angels had all gone out , she thought , `` Now I am quite alone , and I could peep in.
If I do it , no one will ever know"
She sought out the key , and when she had got it in her hand , she put it in the lock , and when she had put it in , she turned it round as well.
Then the door sprang open , and she saw there the Trinity sitting in fire and splendor.
She stayed there awhile , and looked at everything in amazement ; then she touched the light a little with her finger , and her finger became quite golden.
Immediately a great fear fell on her.
She shut the door violently , and ran away.
Her terror too would not quit her , let her do what she might , and her heart beat continually and would not be still ; the gold too stayed on her finger , and would not go away , let her rub it and wash it never so much.
It was not long before the person_0 Mary came back from her journey.
She called the girl before her , and asked to have the keys of heaven back.
When the maiden gave her the bunch , the person_0 looked into her eyes and said , `` Hast thou not opened the thirteenth door also ?"
`` No ,"
she replied.
Then she laid her hand on the girl 's heart , and felt how it beat and beat , and saw right well that she had disobeyed her order and had opened the door.
Then she said once again , `` Art thou certain that thou hast not done it ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the girl , for the second time.
Then she perceived the finger which had become golden from touching the fire of heaven , and saw well that the child had sinned , and said for the third time `` Hast thou not done it ?"
`` No ,"
said the girl for the third time.
Then said the person_0 Mary , `` Thou hast not obeyed me , and besides that thou hast lied , thou art no longer worthy to be in heaven"
Then the girl fell into a deep sleep , and when she awoke she lay on the earth below , and in the midst of a wilderness.
She wanted to cry out , but she could bring forth no sound.
She sprang up and wanted to run away , but whithersoever she turned herself , she was continually held back by thick hedges of thorns through which she could not break.
In the desert , in which she was imprisoned , there stood an old hollow tree , and this had to be her dwelling-place.
Into this she crept when night came , and here she slept.
Here , too , she found a shelter from storm and rain , but it was a miserable life , and bitterly did she weep when she remembered how happy she had been in heaven , and how the angels had played with her.
Roots and wild berries were her only food , and for these she sought as far as she could go.
In the autumn she picked up the fallen nuts and leaves , and carried them into the hole.
The nuts were her food in winter , and when snow and ice came , she crept amongst the leaves like a poor little animal that she might not freeze.
Before long her clothes were all torn , and one bit of them after another fell off her.
As soon , however , as the sun shone warm again , she went out and sat in front of the tree , and her long hair covered her on all sides like a mantle.
Thus she sat year after year , and felt the pain and the misery of the world.
One day , when the trees were once more clothed in fresh green , the King of the country was hunting in the forest , and followed a roe , and as it had fled into the thicket which shut in this part of the forest , he got off his horse , tore the bushes asunder , and cut himself a path with his sword.
When he had at last forced his way through , he saw a wonderfully beautiful maiden sitting under the tree ; and she sat there and was entirely covered with her golden hair down to her very feet.
He stood still and looked at her full of surprise , then he spoke to her and said , `` Who art thou ? Why art thou sitting here in the wilderness ?"
But she gave no answer , for she could not open her mouth.
The King continued , `` Wilt thou go with me to my castle ?"
Then she just nodded her head a little.
The King took her in his arms , carried her to his horse , and rode home with her , and when he reached the royal castle he caused her to be dressed in beautiful garments , and gave her all things in abundance.
Although she could not speak , she was still so beautiful and charming that he began to love her with all his heart , and it was not long before he married her.
After a year or so had passed , the Queen brought a son into the world.
Thereupon the person_0 Mary appeared to her in the night when she lay in her bed alone , and said , `` If thou wilt tell the truth and confess that thou didst unlock the forbidden door , I will open thy mouth and give thee back thy speech , but if thou perseverest in thy sin , and deniest obstinately , I will take thy new-born child away with me"
Then the queen was permitted to answer , but she remained hard , and said , `` No , I did not open the forbidden door ;"
and the person_0 Mary took the new-born child from her arms , and vanished with it.
Next morning when the child was not to be found , it was whispered among the people that the Queen was a man-eater , and had killed her own child.
She heard all this and could say nothing to the contrary , but the King would not believe it , for he loved her so much.
When a year had gone by the Queen again bore a son , and in the night the person_0 Mary again came to her , and said , `` If thou wilt confess that thou openedst the forbidden door , I will give thee thy child back and untie thy tongue ; but if you continuest in sin and deniest it , I will take away with me this new child also"
Then the Queen again said , `` No , I did not open the forbidden door ;"
and the person_0 took the child out of her arms , and away with her to heaven.
Next morning , when this child also had disappeared , the people declared quite loudly that the Queen had devoured it , and the King 's councillors demanded that she should be brought to justice.
The King , however , loved her so dearly that he would not believe it , and commanded the councillors under pain of death not to say any more about it.
The following year the Queen gave birth to a beautiful little daughter , and for the third time the person_0 Mary appeared to her in the night and said , `` Follow me"
She took the Queen by the hand and led her to heaven , and showed her there her two eldest children , who smiled at her , and were playing with the ball of the world.
When the Queen rejoiced thereat , the person_0 Mary said , `` Is thy heart not yet softened ? If thou wilt own that thou openedst the forbidden door , I will give thee back thy two little sons"
But for the third time the Queen answered , `` No , I did not open the forbidden door"
Then the person_0 let her sink down to earth once more , and took from her likewise her third child.
Next morning , when the loss was reported abroad , all the people cried loudly , `` The Queen is a man-eater.
She must be judged ,"
and the King was no longer able to restrain his councillors.
Thereupon a trial was held , and as she could not answer , and defend herself , she was condemned to be burnt alive.
The wood was got together , and when she was fast bound to the stake , and the fire began to burn round about her , the hard ice of pride melted , her heart was moved by repentance , and she thought , `` If I could but confess before my death that I opened the door"
Then her voice came back to her , and she cried out loudly , `` Yes , Mary , I did it ;"
and straight-way rain fell from the sky and extinguished the flames of fire , and a light broke forth above her , and the person_0 Mary descended with the two little sons by her side , and the new-born daughter in her arms.
She spoke kindly to her , and said , `` He who repents his sin and acknowledges it , is forgiven"
Then she gave her the three children , untied her tongue , and granted her happiness for her whole life"
THERE was once on a time a person_0 who had a great forest near his palace , full of all kinds of wild animals.
One day he sent out a huntsman to shoot him a roe , but he did not come back.
`` Perhaps some accident has befallen him ,"
said the person_0 , and the next day he sent out two more huntsmen who were to search for him , but they too stayed away.
Then on the third day , he sent for all his huntsmen , and said , `` Scour the whole forest through , and do not give up until ye have found all three"
But of these also , none came home again , and of the pack of hounds which they had taken with them , none were seen more.
From that time forth , no one would any longer venture into the forest , and it lay there in deep stillness and solitude , and nothing was seen of it , but sometimes an eagle or a hawk flying over it.
This lasted for many years , when a strange huntsman announced himself to the person_0 as seeking a situation , and offered to go into the dangerous forest.
The person_0 , however , would not give his consent , and said , `` It is not safe in there ; I fear it would fare with thee no better than with the others , and thou wouldst never come out again"
The huntsman replied , `` Lord , I will venture it at my own risk , of fear I know nothing"
The huntsman therefore betook himself with his dog to the forest.
It was not long before the dog fell in with some game on the way , and wanted to pursue it ; but hardly had the dog run two steps when it stood before a deep pool , could go no farther , and a naked arm stretched itself out of the water , seized it , and drew it under , When the huntsman saw that , he went back and fetched three men to come with buckets and bale out the water.
When they could see to the bottom there lay a wild man whose body was brown like rusty iron , and whose hair hung over his face down to his knees.
They bound him with cords , and led him away to the castle.
There was great astonishment over the wild man ; the person_0 , however , had him put in an iron cage in his court-yard , and forbade the door to be opened on pain of death , and the Queen herself was to take the key into her keeping.
And from this time forth every one could again go into the forest with safety.
The person_0 had a son of eight years , who was once playing in the court-yard , and while he was playing , his golden ball fell into the cage.
The boy ran thither and said , `` Give me my ball out"
`` Not till thou hast opened the door for me ,"
answered the man.
`` No ,"
said the boy , `` I will not do that ; the person_0 has forbidden it ,"
and ran away.
The next day he again went and asked for his ball ; the wild man said , `` Open my door ,"
but the boy would not.
On the third day the person_0 had ridden out hunting , and the boy went once more and said , `` I can not open the door even if I wished , for I have not the key"
Then the wild man said , `` It lies under thy mother 's pillow , thou canst get it there"
The boy , who wanted to have his ball back , cast all thought to the winds , and brought the key.
The door opened with difficulty , and the boy pinched his fingers.
When it was open the wild man stepped out , gave him the golden ball , and hurried away.
The boy had become afraid ; he called and cried after him , `` Oh , wild man , do not go away , or I shall be beaten !"
The wild man turned back , took him up , set him on his shoulder , and went with hasty steps into the forest.
When the person_0 came home , he observed the empty cage , and asked the Queen how that had happened ? She knew nothing about it , and sought the key , but it was gone.
She called the boy , but no one answered.
The person_0 sent out people to seek for him in the fields , but they did not find him.
Then he could easily guess what had happened , and much grief reigned in the royal court.
When the wild man had once more reached the dark forest , he took the boy down from his shoulder , and said to him , `` Thou wilt never see thy father and mother again , but I will keep thee with me , for thou hast set me free , and I have compassion on thee.
If thou dost all I bid thee , thou shalt fare well.
Of treasure and gold have I enough , and more than anyone in the world"
He made a bed of moss for the boy on which he slept , and the next morning the man took him to a well , and said , `` Behold , the gold well is as bright and clear as crystal , thou shalt sit beside it , and take care that nothing falls into it , or it will be polluted.
I will come every evening to see if thou hast obeyed my order"
The boy placed himself by the margin of the well , and often saw a golden fish or a golden snake show itself therein , and took care that nothing fell in.
As he was thus sitting , his finger hurt him so violently that he involuntarily put it in the water.
He drew it quickly out again , but saw that it was quite gilded , and whatsoever pains he took to wash the gold off again , all was to no purpose.
In the evening Iron John came back , looked at the boy , and said , `` What has happened to the well ?"
`` Nothing , nothing ,"
he answered , and held his finger behind his back , that the man might not see it.
But he said , `` Thou hast dipped thy finger into the water , this time it may pass , but take care thou dost not again let anything go in"
By daybreak the boy was already sitting by the well and watching it.
His finger hurt him again and he passed it over his head , and then unhappily a hair fell down into the well.
He took it quickly out , but it was already quite gilded.
Iron John came , and already knew what had happened.
`` Thou hast let a hair fall into the well ,"
said he.
`` I will allow thee to watch by it once more , but if this happens for the third time then the well is polluted , and thou canst no longer remain with me"
On the third day , the boy sat by the well , and did not stir his finger , however much it hurt him.
But the time was long to him , and he looked at the reflection of his face on the surface of the water.
And as he still bent down more and more while he was doing so , and trying to look straight into the eyes , his long hair fell down from his shoulders into the water.
He raised himself up quickly , but the whole of the hair of his head was already golden and shone like the sun.
You may imagine how terrified the poor boy was ! He took his pocket-handkerchief and tied it round his head , in order that the man might not see it.
When he came he already knew everything , and said , `` Take the handkerchief off"
Then the golden hair streamed forth , and let the boy excuse himself as he might , it was of no use.
`` Thou hast not stood the trial , and canst stay here no longer.
Go forth into the world , there thou wilt learn what poverty is.
But as thou hast not a bad heart , and as I mean well by thee , there is one thing I will grant thee ; if thou fallest into any difficulty , come to the forest and cry , ` Iron John , ' and then I will come and help thee.
My power is great , greater than thou thinkest , and I have gold and silver in abundance"
Then the person_0 's son left the forest , and walked by beaten and unbeaten paths ever onwards until at length he reached a great city.
There he looked for work , but could find none , and he had learned nothing by which he could help himself.
At length he went to the palace , and asked if they would take him in.
The people about court did not at all know what use they could make of him , but they liked him , and told him to stay.
At length the cook took him into his service , and said he might carry wood and water , and rake the cinders together.
Once when it so happened that no one else was at hand , the cook ordered him to carry the food to the royal table , but as he did not like to let his golden hair be seen , he kept his little cap on.
Such a thing as that had never yet come under the person_0 's notice , and he said , `` When thou comest to the royal table thou must take thy hat off"
He answered , `` Ah , Lord , I can not ; I have a bad sore place on my head"
Then the person_0 had the cook called before him and scolded him , and asked how he could take such a boy as that into his service ; and that he was to turn him off at once.
The cook , however , had pity on him , and exchanged him for the gardener 's boy.
And now the boy had to plant and water the garden , hoe and dig , and bear the wind and bad weather.
Once in summer when he was working alone in the garden , the day was so warm he took his little cap off that the air might cool him.
As the sun shone on his hair it glittered and flashed so that the rays fell into the bed-room of the person_0 's daughter , and up she sprang to see what that could be.
Then she saw the boy , and cried to him , `` Boy , bring me a wreath of flowers"
He put his cap on with all haste , and gathered wild field-flowers and bound them together.
When he was ascending the stairs with them , the gardener met him , and said , `` How canst thou take the person_0 's daughter a garland of such common flowers ? Go quickly , and get another , and seek out the prettiest and rarest"
`` Oh , no ,"
replied the boy , `` the wild ones have more scent , and will please her better"
When he got into the room , the person_0 's daughter said , `` Take thy cap off , it is not seemly to keep it on in my presence"
He again said , `` I may not , I have a sore head"
She , however , caught at his cap and pulled it off , and then his golden hair rolled down on his shoulders , and it was splendid to behold.
He wanted to run out , but she held him by the arm , and gave him a handful of ducats.
With these he departed , but he cared nothing for the gold pieces.
He took them to the gardener , and said , `` I present them to thy children , they can play with them"
The following day the person_0 's daughter again called to him that he was to bring her a wreath of field-flowers , and when he went in with it , she instantly snatched at his cap , and wanted to take it away from him , but he held it fast with both hands.
She again gave him a handful of ducats , but he would not keep them , and gave them to the gardener for playthings for his children.
On the third day things went just the same ; she could not get his cap away from him , and he would not have her money.
Not long afterwards , the country was overrun by war.
The person_0 gathered together his people , and did not know whether or not he could offer any opposition to the enemy , who was superior in strength and had a mighty army.
Then said the gardener 's boy , `` I am grown up , and will go to the wars also , only give me a horse"
The others laughed , and said , `` Seek one for thyself when we are gone , we will leave one behind us in the stable for thee"
When they had gone forth , he went into the stable , and got the horse out ; it was lame of one foot , and limped hobblety jig , hobblety jig ; nevertheless he mounted it , and rode away to the dark forest.
When he came to the outskirts , he called `` Iron John ,"
three times so loudly that it echoed through the trees.
Thereupon the wild man appeared immediately , and said , `` What dost thou desire ?"
`` I want a strong steed , for I am going to the wars"
`` That thou shalt have , and still more than thou askest for"
Then the wild man went back into the forest , and it was not long before a stable-boy came out of it , who led a horse that snorted with its nostrils , and could hardly be restrained , and behind them followed a great troop of soldiers entirely equipped in iron , and their swords flashed in the sun.
The youth made over his three-legged horse to the stable-boy , mounted the other , and rode at the head of the soldiers.
When he got near the battle-field a great part of the person_0 's men had already fallen , and little was wanting to make the rest give way.
Then the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers , broke like a hurricane over the enemy , and beat down all who opposed him.
They began to fly , but the youth pursued , and never stopped , until there was not a single man left.
Instead , however , of returning to the person_0 , he conducted his troop by bye-ways back to the forest , and called forth Iron John.
`` What dost thou desire ?"
asked the wild man.
`` Take back thy horse and thy troops , and give me my three-legged horse again"
All that he asked was done , and soon he was riding on his three-legged horse.
When the person_0 returned to his palace , his daughter went to meet him , and wished him joy of his victory.
`` I am not the one who carried away the victory ,"
said he , `` but a stranger knight who came to my assistance with his soldiers"
The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was , but the person_0 did not know , and said , `` He followed the enemy , and I did not see him again"
She inquired of the gardener where his boy was , but he smiled , and said , `` He has just come home on his three-legged horse , and the others have been mocking him , and crying , `` Here comes our hobblety jig back again !"
They asked , too , `` Under what hedge hast thou been lying sleeping all the time ?"
He , however , said , `` I did the best of all , and it would have gone badly without me"
And then he was still more ridiculed"
The person_0 said to his daughter , `` I will proclaim a great feast that shall last for three days , and thou shalt throw a golden apple.
Perhaps the unknown will come to it"
When the feast was announced , the youth went out to the forest , and called Iron John.
`` What dost thou desire ?"
asked he.
`` That I may catch the person_0 's daughter 's golden apple"
`` It is as safe as if thou hadst it already ,"
said Iron John.
`` Thou shalt likewise have a suit of red armor for the occasion , and ride on a spirited chestnut-horse"
When the day came , the youth galloped to the spot , took his place amongst the knights , and was recognized by no one.
The person_0 's daughter came forward , and threw a golden apple to the knights , but none of them caught it but he , only as soon as he had it he galloped away.
On the second day Iron John equipped him as a white knight , and gave him a white horse.
Again he was the only one who caught the apple , and he did not linger an instant , but galloped off with it.
The person_0 grew angry , and said , `` That is not allowed ; he must appear before me and tell his name"
He gave the order that if the knight who caught the apple , should go away again they should pursue him , and if he would not come back willingly , they were to cut him down and stab him.
On the third day , he received from Iron John a suit of black armor and a black horse , and again he caught the apple.
But when he was riding off with it , the person_0 's attendants pursued him , and one of them got so near him that he wounded the youth 's leg with the point of his sword.
The youth nevertheless escaped from them , but his horse leapt so violently that the helmet fell from the youth 's head , and they could see that he had golden hair.
They rode back and announced this to the person_0.
The following day the person_0 's daughter asked the gardener about his boy.
`` He is at work in the garden ; the queer creature has been at the festival too , and only came home yesterday evening ; he has likewise shown my children three golden apples which he has won"
The person_0 had him summoned into his presence , and he came and again had his little cap on his head.
But the person_0 's daughter went up to him and took it off , and then his golden hair fell down over his shoulders , and he was so handsome that all were amazed.
`` Art thou the knight who came every day to the festival , always in different colors , and who caught the three golden apples ?"
asked the person_0.
`` Yes ,"
answered he , `` and here the apples are ,"
and he took them out of his pocket , and returned them to the person_0.
`` If you desire further proof , you may see the wound which your people gave me when they followed me.
But I am likewise the knight who helped you to your victory over your enemies"
`` If thou canst perform such deeds as that , thou art no gardener 's boy ; tell me , who is thy father ?"
`` My father is a mighty person_0 , and gold have I in plenty as great as I require"
`` I well see ,"
said the person_0 , `` that I owe thanks to thee ; can I do anything to please thee ?"
`` Yes ,"
answered he , `` that indeed you can.
Give me your daughter to wife"
The maiden laughed , and said , `` He does not stand much on ceremony , but I have already seen by his golden hair that he was no gardener 's boy ,"
and then she went and kissed him.
His father and mother came to the wedding , and were in great delight , for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again.
And as they were sitting at the marriage-feast , the music suddenly stopped , the doors opened , and a stately person_0 came in with a great retinue.
He went up to the youth , embraced him and said , `` I am Iron John , and was by enchantment a wild man , but thou hast set me free ; all the treasures which I possess , shall be thy property"
A certain tailor had a son , who happened to be small , and no bigger than a Thumb , and on this account he was always called person_0.
He had , however , some courage in him , and said to his father , `` Father , I must and will go out into the world"
`` That 's right , my son ,"
said the old man , and took a long darning-needle and made a knob of sealing-wax on it at the candle , `` and there is a sword for thee to take with thee on the way"
Then the little tailor wanted to have one more meal with them , and hopped into the kitchen to see what his lady mother had cooked for the last time.
It was , however , just dished up , and the dish stood on the hearth.
Then he said , `` Mother , what is there to eat to-day ?"
`` See for thyself ,"
said his mother.
So person_0 jumped on to the hearth , and peeped into the dish , but as he stretched his neck in too far the steam from the food caught hold of him , and carried him up the chimney.
He rode about in the air on the steam for a while , until at length he sank down to the ground again.
Now the little tailor was outside in the wide world , and he traveled about , and went to a master in his craft , but the food was not good enough for him.
`` Mistress , if you give us no better food ,"
said person_0 , `` I will go away , and early to-morrow morning I will write with chalk on the door of your house , ` Too many potatoes , too little meat ! Farewell , Mr.
Potato-King.
'"
`` What wouldst thou have forsooth , grasshopper ?"
said the mistress , and grew angry , and seized a dishcloth , and was just going to strike him ; but my little tailor crept nimbly under a thimble , peeped out from beneath it , and put his tongue out at the mistress.
She took up the thimble , and wanted to get hold of him , but little person_0 hopped into the cloth , and while the mistress was opening it out and looking for him , he got into a crevice in the table.
`` Ho , ho , lady mistress ,"
cried he , and thrust his head out , and when she began to strike him he leapt down into the drawer.
At last , however , she caught him and drove him out of the house.
The little tailor journeyed on and came to a great forest , and there he fell in with a band of robbers who had a design to steal the King 's treasure.
When they saw the little tailor , they thought , `` A little fellow like that can creep through a key-hole and serve as picklock to us"
`` Hollo ,"
cried one of them , `` thou giant Goliath , wilt thou go to the treasure-chamber with us ? Thou canst slip thyself in and throw out the money"
person_0 reflected a while , and at length he said , `` yes ,"
and went with them to the treasure-chamber.
Then he looked at the doors above and below , to see if there was any crack in them.
It was not long before he espied one which was broad enough to let him in.
He was therefore about to get in at once , but one of the two sentries who stood before the door , observed him , and said to the other , `` What an ugly spider is creeping there ; I will kill it"
`` Let the poor creature alone ,"
said the other ; `` it has done thee no harm"
Then person_0 got safely through the crevice into the treasure-chamber , opened the window beneath which the robbers were standing , and threw out to them one thaler after another.
When the little tailor was in the full swing of his work , he heard the King coming to inspect his treasure-chamber , and crept hastily into a hiding-place.
The King noticed that several solid thalers were missing , but could not conceive who could have stolen them , for locks and bolts were in good condition , and all seemed well guarded.
Then he went away again , and said to the sentries , `` Be on the watch , some one is after the money"
When therefore person_0 recommenced his labors , they heard the money moving , and a sound of klink , klink , klink.
They ran swiftly in to seize the thief , but the little tailor , who heard them coming , was still swifter , and leapt into a corner and covered himself with a thaler , so that nothing could be seen of him , and at the same time he mocked the sentries and cried , `` Here am I !"
The sentries ran thither , but as they got there , he had already hopped into another corner under a thaler , and was crying , `` Ho , ho , here am I !"
The watchmen sprang there in haste , but person_0 had long ago got into a third corner , and was crying , `` Ho , ho , here am I !"
And thus he made fools of them , and drove them so long round about the treasure-chamber that they were weary and went away.
Then by degrees he threw all the thalers out , dispatching the last with all his might , then hopped nimbly upon it , and flew down with it through the window.
The robbers paid him great compliments.
`` Thou art a valiant hero ,"
said they ; `` wilt thou be our captain ?"
person_0 , however , declined , and said he wanted to see the world first.
They now divided the booty , but the little tailor only asked for a kreuzer because he could not carry more.
Then he once more buckled on his sword , bade the robbers goodbye , and took to the road.
First , he went to work with some masters , but he had no liking for that , and at last he hired himself as man-servant in an inn.
The maids , however , could not endure him , for he saw all they did secretly , without their seeing him , and he told their master and mistress what they had taken off the plates , and carried away out of the cellar , for themselves.
Then said they , `` Wait , and we will pay thee off !"
and arranged with each other to play him a trick.
Soon afterwards when one of the maids was mowing in the garden , and saw person_0 jumping about and creeping up and down the plants , she mowed him up quickly with the grass , tied all in a great cloth , and secretly threw it to the cows.
Now amongst them there was a great black one , who swallowed him down without hurting him.
Down below , however , it pleased him ill , for it was quite dark , neither was any candle burning.
When the cow was being milked he cried , `` Strip , strap , strull , Will the pail soon be full ?"
But the noise of the milking prevented his being understood.
After this the master of the house came into the cow-byre and said , `` That cow shall be killed to-morrow"
Then person_0 was so alarmed that he cried out in a clear voice , `` Let me out first , for I am shut up inside her"
The master heard that quite well , but did not know from whence the voice came.
`` Where art thou ?"
asked he.
`` In the black one ,"
answered person_0 , but the master did not understand what that meant , and went out.
Next morning the cow was killed.
Happily person_0 did not meet with one blow at the cutting up and chopping ; he got among the sausage-meat.
And when the butcher came in and began his work , he cried out with all his might , `` Do n't chop too deep , do n't chop too deep , I am amongst it"
No one heard this because of the noise of the chopping-knife.
Now poor person_0 was in trouble , but trouble sharpens the wits , and he sprang out so adroitly between the blows that none of them touched him , and he escaped with a whole skin.
But still he could not get away , there was nothing for it but to let himself be thrust into a black-pudding with the bits of bacon.
His quarters there were rather confined , and besides that he was hung up in the chimney to be smoked , and there time did hang terribly heavy on his hands.
At length in winter he was taken down again , as the black-pudding had to be set before a guest.
When the hostess was cutting it in slices , he took care not to stretch out his head too far lest a bit of it should be cut off ; at last he saw his opportunity , cleared a passage for himself , and jumped out.
The little tailor , however , would not stay any longer in a house where he fared so ill , so at once set out on his journey again.
But his liberty did not last long.
In the open country he met with a fox who snapped him up in a fit of absence.
`` Hollo , Mr.
Fox ,"
cried the little tailor , `` it is I who am sticking in your throat , set me at liberty again"
`` Thou art right ,"
answered the fox.
`` Thou art next to nothing for me , but if thou wilt promise me the fowls in thy father 's yard I will let thee go"
`` With all my heart ,"
replied person_0.
`` Thou shalt have all the cocks and hens , that I promise thee"
Then the fox let him go again , and himself carried him home.
When the father once more saw his dear son , he willingly gave the fox all the fowls which he had.
`` For this I likewise bring thee a handsome bit of money ,"
said person_0 , and gave his father the kreuzer which he earned on his travels.
`` But why did the fox get the poor chickens to eat ?"
`` Oh , you goose , your father would surely love his child far more than the fowls in the yard !"
As a certain fisherwoman passed by a palace crying her fish , the queen appeared at one of the windows and beckoned her to come near and show what she had.
At that moment a very big fish jumped about in the bottom of the basket.
`` Is it a he or a she ?"
inquired the queen.
`` I wish to purchase a she fish"
On hearing this the fish laughed aloud.
`` It 's a he ,"
replied the fisherwoman , and proceeded on her rounds.
The queen returned to her room in a great rage ; and on coming to see her in the evening , the king noticed that something had disturbed her.
`` Are you indisposed ?"
he said.
`` No ; but I am very much annoyed at the strange behavior of a fish.
A woman brought me one to-day , and on my inquiring whether it was a male or female , the fish laughed most rudely"
`` A fish laugh ! Impossible ! You must be dreaming"
`` I am not a fool.
I speak of what I have seen with my own eyes and have heard with my own ears"
`` Passing strange ! Be it so.
I will inquire concerning it"
On the morrow the king repeated to his vizier what his wife had told him , and bade him investigate the matter , and be ready with a satisfactory answer within six months , on pain of death.
The vizier promised to do his best , though he felt almost certain of failure.
For five months he labored indefatigably to find a reason for the laughter of the fish.
He sought everywhere and from every one.
The wise and learned , and they who were skilled in magic and in all manner of trickery , were consulted.
Nobody , however , could explain the matter ; and so he returned broken-hearted to his house , and began to arrange his affairs in prospect of certain death , for he had had sufficient experience of the king to know that His Majesty would not go back from his threat.
Amongst other things , he advised his son to travel for a time , until the king 's anger should have somewhat cooled.
The young fellow , who was both clever and handsome , started off whithersoever Kismat might lead him.
He had been gone some days , when he fell in with an old farmer , who also was on a journey to a certain village.
Finding the old man very pleasant , he asked him if he might accompany him , professing to be on a visit to the same place.
The old farmer agreed , and they walked along together.
The day was hot , and the way was long and weary.
`` Do n't you think it would be pleasanter if you and I sometimes gave one another a lift ?"
said the youth.
`` What a fool the man is !"
thought the old farmer.
Presently they passed through a field of corn ready for the sickle , and looking like a sea of gold as it waved to and fro in the breeze.
`` Is this eaten or not ?"
said the young man.
Not understanding his meaning , the old man replied , `` I do n't know"
After a little while the two travellers arrived at a big village , where the young man gave his companion a clasp-knife , and said , `` Take this , friend , and get two horses with it ; but mind and bring it back , for it is very precious"
The old man , looking half amused and half angry , pushed back the knife , muttering something to the effect that his friend was either a fool himself or else trying to play the fool with him.
The young man pretended not to notice his reply , and remained almost silent till they reached the city , a short distance outside which was the old farmer 's house.
They walked about the bazar and went to the mosque , but nobody saluted them or invited them to come in and rest.
`` What a large cemetery !"
exclaimed the young man.
`` What does the man mean ,"
thought the old farmer , `` calling this largely populated city a cemetery ?"
On leaving the city their way led through a cemetery where a few people were praying beside a grave and distributing chapatis and kulchas to passers-by , in the name of their beloved dead.
They beckoned to the two travellers and gave them as much as they would.
`` What a splendid city this is !"
said the young man.
`` Now , the man must surely be demented !"
thought the old farmer.
`` I wonder what he will do next ? He will be calling the land water , and the water land ; and be speaking of light where there is darkness , and of darkness when it is light"
However , he kept his thoughts to himself.
Presently they had to wade through a stream that ran along the edge of the cemetery.
The water was rather deep , so the old farmer took of his shoes and paijamas and crossed over ; but the young man waded through it with his shoes and paijamas on.
`` Well ! I never did see such a perfect fool , both in word and in deed ,"
said the old man to himself.
However , he liked the fellow ; and thinking that he would amuse his wife and daughter , he invited him to come and stay at his house as long as he had occasion to remain in the village.
`` Thank you very much ,"
the young man replied ; `` but let me first inquire , if you please , whether the beam of your house is strong"
The old farmer left him in despair , and entered his house laughing.
`` There is a man in yonder field ,"
he said , after returning their greetings.
`` He has come the greater part of the way with me , and I wanted him to put up here as long as he had to stay in this village.
But the fellow is such a fool that I can not make anything out of him.
He wants to know if the beam of this house is all right.
The man must be mad !"
and saying this , he burst into a fit of laughter.
`` Father ,"
said the farmer 's daughter , who was a very sharp and wise girl , `` this man , whosoever he is , is no fool , as you deem him.
He only wishes to know if you can afford to entertain him"
`` Oh ! of course ,"
replied the farmer.
`` I see.
Well perhaps you can help me to solve some of his other mysteries.
While we were walking together he asked whether he should carry me or I should carry him , as he thought that would be a pleasanter mode of proceeding"
`` Most assuredly ,"
said the girl.
`` He meant that one of you should tell a story to beguile the time"
`` Oh yes.
Well , we were passing through a corn-field , when he asked me whether it was eaten or not"
`` And did n't you know the meaning of this , father ? He simply wished to know if the man was in debt or not ; because , if the owner of the field was in debt , then the produce of the field was as good as eaten to him ; that is , it would have to go to his creditors"
`` Yes , yes , yes ; of course ! Then , on entering a certain village , he bade me take his clasp knife and get two horses with it , and bring back the knife again to him"
`` Are not two stout sticks as good as two horses for helping one along on the road ? He only asked you to cut a couple of sticks and be careful not to lose his knife"
`` I see ,"
said the farmer.
`` While we were walking over the city we did not see anybody that we knew , and not a soul gave us a scrap of anything to eat , till we were passing the cemetery ; but there some people called to us and put into our hands some chapatis and kulchas ; so my companion called the city a cemetery , and the cemetery a city"
`` This also is to be understood , father , if one thinks of the city as the place where everything is to be obtained , and of inhospitable people as worse than the dead.
The city , though crowded with people , was as if dead , as far as you were concerned ; while , in the cemetery , which is crowded with the dead , you were saluted by kind friends and provided with bread"
`` True , true !"
said the astonished farmer.
`` Then , just now , when we were crossing the stream , he waded through it without taking off his shoes and paijamas"
`` I admire his wisdom ,"
replied the girl.
`` I have often thought how stupid people were to venture into that swiftly flowing stream and over those sharp stones with bare feet.
The slightest stumble and they would fall , and be wetted from head to foot.
This friend of yours is a most wise man.
I should like to see him and speak to him"
`` Very well ,"
said the farmer ; `` I will go and find him , and bring him in"
`` Tell him , father , that our beams are strong enough , and then he will come in.
I 'll send on ahead a present to the man , to show him that we can afford to have him for our guest"
Accordingly she called a servant and sent him to the young man with a present of a basin of ghee , twelve chapatis , and a jar of milk , and the following message : -- `` O friend , the moon is full ; twelve months make a year , and the sea is overflowing with water"
Half-way the bearer of this present and message met his little son , who , seeing what was in the basket , begged his father to give him some of the food.
His father foolishly complied.
Presently he saw the young man , and gave him the rest of the present and the message.
`` Give your mistress my salam ,"
he replied , `` and tell her that the moon is new , and that I can only find eleven months in the year , and the sea is by no means full"
Not understanding the meaning of these words , the servant repeated them word for word , as he had heard them , to his mistress ; and thus his theft was discovered , and he was severely punished.
After a little while the young man appeared with the old farmer.
Great attention was shown to him , and he was treated in every way as if he were the son of a great man , although his humble host knew nothing of his origin.
At length he told them everything -- about the laughing of the fish , his father 's threatened execution , and his own banishment -- and asked their advice as to what he should do.
`` The laughing of the fish ,"
said the girl , `` which seems to have been the cause of all this trouble , indicates that there is a man in the palace who is plotting against the king 's life"
`` Joy , joy !"
exclaimed the vizier 's son.
`` There is yet time for me to return and save my father from an ignominious and unjust death , and the king from danger"
The following day he hastened back to his own country , taking with him the farmer 's daughter.
Immediately on arrival he ran to the palace and informed his father of what he had heard.
The poor vizier , now almost dead from the expectation of death , was at once carried to the king , to whom he repeated the news that his son had just brought.
`` Never !"
said the king.
`` But it must be so , Your Majesty ,"
replied the vizier ; `` and in order to prove the truth of what I have heard , I pray you to call together all the maids in your palace , and order them to jump over a pit , which must be dug.
We 'll soon find out whether there is any man there"
The king had the pit dug , and commanded all the maids belonging to the palace to try to jump it.
All of them tried , but only one succeeded.
That one was found to be a man ! ! Thus was the queen satisfied , and the faithful old vizier saved.
Afterwards , as soon as could be , the vizier 's son married the old farmer 's daughter ; and a most happy marriage it was"
There was once a poor woman who gave birth to a little son ; and as he came into the world with a caul on , it was predicted that in his fourteenth year he would have the person_0 's daughter for his wife.
It happened that soon afterwards the person_0 came into the village , and no one knew that he was the person_0 , and when he asked the people what news there was , they answered , `` A child has just been born with a caul on ; whatever any one so born undertakes turns out well.
It is prophesied , too , that in his fourteenth year he will have the person_0 's daughter for his wife"
The person_0 , who had a bad heart , and was angry about the prophecy , went to the parents , and , seeming quite friendly , said , `` You poor people , let me have your child , and I will take care of it"
At first they refused , but when the stranger offered them a large amount of gold for it , and they thought , `` It is a luck-child , and everything must turn out well for it ,"
they at last consented , and gave him the child.
The person_0 put it in a box and rode away with it until he came to a deep piece of water ; then he threw the box into it and thought , `` I have freed my daughter from her unlooked-for suitor"
The box , however , did not sink , but floated like a boat , and not a drop of water made its way into it.
And it floated to within two miles of the person_0 's chief city , where there was a mill , and it came to a stand-still at the mill-dam.
A miller 's boy , who by good luck was standing there , noticed it and pulled it out with a hook , thinking that he had found a great treasure , but when he opened it there lay a pretty boy inside , quite fresh and lively.
He took him to the miller and his wife , and as they had no children they were glad , and said , `` God has given him to us"
They took great care of the foundling , and he grew up in all goodness.
It happened that once in a storm , the person_0 went into the mill , and he asked the mill-folk if the tall youth was their son.
`` No ,"
answered they , `` he 's a foundling.
Fourteen years ago he floated down to the mill-dam in a box , and the mill-boy pulled him out of the water"
Then the person_0 knew that it was none other than the luck-child which he had thrown into the water , and he said , `` My good people , could not the youth take a letter to the Queen ; I will give him two gold pieces as a reward ?"
`` Just as the person_0 commands ,"
answered they , and they told the boy to hold himself in readiness.
Then the person_0 wrote a letter to the Queen , wherein he said , `` As soon as the boy arrives with this letter , let him be killed and buried , and all must be done before I come home"
The boy set out with this letter ; but he lost his way , and in the evening came to a large forest.
In the darkness he saw a small light ; he went towards it and reached a cottage.
When he went in , an old woman was sitting by the fire quite alone.
She started when she saw the boy , and said , `` Whence do you come , and whither are you going ?"
`` I come from the mill ,"
he answered , `` and wish to go to the Queen , to whom I am taking a letter ; but as I have lost my way in the forest I should like to stay here over night"
`` You poor boy ,"
said the woman , `` you have come into a den of thieves , and when they come home they will kill you"
`` Let them come ,"
said the boy , `` I am not afraid ; but I am so tired that I can not go any farther :"
and he stretched himself upon a bench and fell asleep.
Soon afterwards the robbers came , and angrily asked what strange boy was lying there ? `` Ah ,"
said the old woman , `` it is an innocent child who has lost himself in the forest , and out of pity I have let him come in ; he has to take a letter to the Queen"
The robbers opened the letter and read it , and in it was written that the boy as soon as he arrived should be put to death.
Then the hard-hearted robbers felt pity , and their leader tore up the letter and wrote another , saying , that as soon as the boy came , he should be married at once to the person_0 's daughter.
Then they let him lie quietly on the bench until the next morning , and when he awoke they gave him the letter , and showed him the right way.
And the Queen , when she had received the letter and read it , did as was written in it , and had a splendid wedding-feast prepared , and the person_0 's daughter was married to the luck-child , and as the youth was handsome and agreeable she lived with him in joy and contentment.
After some time the person_0 returned to his palace and saw that the prophecy was fulfilled , and the luck-child married to his daughter.
`` How has that come to pass ?"
said he ; `` I gave quite another order in my letter"
So the Queen gave him the letter , and said that he might see for himself what was written in it.
The person_0 read the letter and saw quite well that it had been exchanged for the other.
He asked the youth what had become of the letter entrusted to him , and why he had brought another instead of it.
`` I know nothing about it ,"
answered he ; `` it must have been changed in the night , when I slept in the forest"
The person_0 said in a passion , `` You shall not have everything quite so much your own way ; whosoever marries my daughter must fetch me from hell three golden hairs from the head of the devil ; bring me what I want , and you shall keep my daughter"
In this way the person_0 hoped to be rid of him for ever.
But the luck-child answered , `` I will fetch the golden hairs , I am not afraid of the Devil ;"
thereupon he took leave of them and began his journey.
The road led him to a large town , where the watchman by the gates asked him what his trade was , and what he knew.
`` I know everything ,"
answered the luck-child.
`` Then you can do us a favor ,"
said the watchman , `` if you will tell us why our market-fountain , which once flowed with wine has become dry , and no longer gives even water ?"
`` That you shall know ,"
answered he ; `` only wait until I come back"
Then he went farther and came to another town , and there also the gatekeeper asked him what was his trade , and what he knew.
`` I know everything ,"
answered he.
`` Then you can do us a favor and tell us why a tree in our town which once bore golden apples now does not even put forth leaves ?"
`` You shall know that ,"
answered he ; `` only wait until I come back"
Then he went on and came to a wide river over which he must go.
The ferryman asked him what his trade was , and what he knew.
`` I know everything ,"
answered he.
`` Then you can do me a favor ,"
said the ferryman , `` and tell me why I must always be rowing backwards and forwards , and am never set free ?"
`` You shall know that ,"
answered he ; `` only wait until I come back"
When he had crossed the water he found the entrance to Hell.
It was black and sooty within , and the Devil was not at home , but his grandmother was sitting in a large arm-chair.
`` What do you want ?"
said she to him , but she did not look so very wicked.
`` I should like to have three golden hairs from the devil 's head ,"
answered he , `` else I can not keep my wife"
`` That is a good deal to ask for ,"
said she ; `` if the devil comes home and finds you , it will cost you your life ; but as I pity you , I will see if I can not help you"
She changed him into an ant and said , `` Creep into the folds of my dress , you will be safe there"
`` Yes ,"
answered he , `` so far , so good ; but there are three things besides that I want to know : why a fountain which once flowed with wine has become dry , and no longer gives even water ; why a tree which once bore golden apples does not even put forth leaves ; and why a ferry-man must always be going backwards and forwards , and is never set free ?"
`` Those are difficult questions ,"
answered she , `` but only be silent and quiet and pay attention to what the devil says when I pull out the three golden hairs"
As the evening came on , the devil returned home.
No sooner had he entered than he noticed that the air was not pure.
`` I smell man 's flesh ,"
said he ; `` all is not right here"
Then he pried into every corner , and searched , but could not find anything.
His grandmother scolded him.
`` It has just been swept ,"
said she , `` and everything put in order , and now you are upsetting it again ; you have always got man 's flesh in your nose.
Sit down and eat your supper"
When he had eaten and drunk he was tired , and laid his head in his grandmother 's lap , and before long he was fast asleep , snoring and breathing heavily.
Then the old woman took hold of a golden hair , pulled it out , and laid it down near her.
`` Oh !"
cried the devil , `` what are you doing ?"
`` I have had a bad dream ,"
answered the grandmother , `` so I seized hold of your hair"
`` What did you dream then ?"
said the devil.
`` I dreamed that a fountain in a market-place from which wine once flowed was dried up , and not even water would flow out of it ; what is the cause of it ?"
`` Oh , ho ! if they did but know it ,"
answered the devil ; `` there is a toad sitting under a stone in the well ; if they killed it , the wine would flow again"
He went to sleep again and snored until the windows shook.
Then she pulled the second hair out.
`` Ha ! what are you doing ?"
cried the devil angrily.
`` Do not take it ill ,"
said she , `` I did it in a dream"
`` What have you dreamt this time ?"
asked he.
`` I dreamt that in a certain kingdom there stood an apple-tree which had once borne golden apples , but now would not even bear leaves.
What , think you , was the reason ?"
`` Oh ! if they did but know ,"
answered the devil.
`` A mouse is gnawing at the root ; if they killed this they would have golden apples again , but if it gnaws much longer the tree will wither altogether.
But leave me alone with your dreams : if you disturb me in my sleep again you will get a box on the ear"
The grandmother spoke gently to him until he fell asleep again and snored.
Then she took hold of the third golden hair and pulled it out.
The devil jumped up , roared out , and would have treated her ill if she had not quieted him once more and said , `` Who can help bad dreams ?"
`` What was the dream , then ?"
asked he , and was quite curious.
`` I dreamt of a ferry-man who complained that he must always ferry from one side to the other , and was never released.
What is the cause of it ?"
`` Ah ! the fool ,"
answered the devil ; `` when any one comes and wants to go across he must put the oar in his hand , and the other man will have to ferry and he will be free"
As the grandmother had plucked out the three golden hairs , and the three questions were answered , she let the old serpent alone , and he slept until daybreak.
When the devil had gone out again the old woman took the ant out of the folds of her dress , and gave the luck-child his human shape again.
`` There are the three golden hairs for you ,"
said she.
`` What the Devil said to your three questions , I suppose you heard ?"
`` Yes ,"
answered he , `` I heard , and will take care to remember"
`` You have what you want ,"
said she , `` and now you can go your way"
He thanked the old woman for helping him in his need , and left hell well content that everything had turned out so fortunately.
When he came to the ferry-man he was expected to give the promised answer.
`` Ferry me across first ,"
said the luck-child , `` and then I will tell you how you can be set free ,"
and when he reached the opposite shore he gave him the devil 's advice : `` Next time any one comes , who wants to be ferried over , just put the oar in his hand"
He went on and came to the town wherein stood the unfruitful tree , and there too the watchman wanted an answer.
So he told him what he had heard from the devil : `` Kill the mouse which is gnawing at its root , and it will again bear golden apples"
Then the watchman thanked him , and gave him as a reward two asses laden with gold , which followed him.
At last he came to the town whose well was dry.
He told the watchman what the devil had said : `` A toad is in the well beneath a stone ; you must find it and kill it , and the well will again give wine in plenty"
The watchman thanked him , and also gave him two asses laden with gold.
At last the luck-child got home to his wife , who was heartily glad to see him again , and to hear how well he had prospered in everything.
To the person_0 he took what he had asked for , the devil 's three golden hairs , and when the person_0 saw the four asses laden with gold he was quite content , and said , `` Now all the conditions are fulfilled , and you can keep my daughter.
But tell me , dear son-in-law , where did all that gold come from ? this is tremendous wealth !"
`` I was rowed across a river ,"
answered he , `` and got it there ; it lies on the shore instead of sand"
`` Can I too fetch some of it ?"
said the person_0 ; and he was quite eager about it.
`` As much as you like ,"
answered he.
`` There is a ferry-man on the river ; let him ferry you over , and you can fill your sacks on the other side"
The greedy person_0 set out in all haste , and when he came to the river he beckoned to the ferry-man to put him across.
The ferry-man came and bade him get in , and when they got to the other shore he put the oar in his hand and sprang out.
But from this time forth the person_0 had to ferry , as a punishment for his sins.
Perhaps he is ferrying still ? If he is , it is because no one has taken the oar from him"
TWO lawyers to their cause so well adhered , A country justice quite confused appeared , By them the facts were rendered so obscure With which the truth remained he was not sure.
At length , completely tired , two straws he sought Of diff ` rent lengths , and to the parties brought.
These in his hand he held : -- the plaintiff drew -LRB- So fate decreed -RRB- the shortest of the two.
On this the other homeward took his way , To boast how nicely he had gained the day.
THE bench complained : the magistrate replied Do n't blame I pray -- ` tis nothing new I 've tried ; Courts often judge at hazard in the law , Without deciding by the longest straw"
PAINTER in Paphos and Cythera famed Depict , I pray , the absent person_0 ' face.
Thou hast not seen the lovely nymph I 've named ; The better for thy peace.
-- Then will I trace For thy instruction her transcendent grace.
Begin with lily white and blushing rose , Take then the Loves and Graces.
But what good Words , idle words ? for Beauty 's Goddess could By person_0 be replaced , nor one suppose The secret fraud -- their grace so equal shows.
Thou at Cythera couldst , at Paphos too , Of the same person_0 Venus form anew"
A STURGEON , once , a glutton famed was led To have for supper -- all , except the head.
With wond ` rous glee he feasted on the fish ; And quickly swallowed down the royal dish.
O'ercharged , howe'er , his stomach soon gave way ; And doctors were required without delay.
THE danger imminent , his friends desired He 'd settle ev ` ry thing affairs required.
Said he , in that respect I 'm quite prepared ; And , since my time so little is declared , With diligence , I earnestly request , The sturgeon 's head you 'll get me nicely dressed"
SICK , Alice grown , and fearing dire event , Some friend advised a servant should be sent Her confessor to bring and ease her mind ; -- Yes , she replied , to see him I 'm inclined ; Let father person_0 instantly be sought : -- By him salvation usually I 'm taught.
A MESSENGER was told , without delay , To take , with rapid steps , the convent way ; He rang the bell -- a monk enquired his name , And asked for what , or whom , the fellow came.
I father person_0 want , the wight replied , Who 's oft to Alice confessor and guide : With person_0 , cried the other , would you speak ? If that 's the case , he 's far enough to seek ; Poor man ! he 's left us for the regions blessed , And has in Paradise ten years confessed"
There was once a girl who was idle and would not spin , and let her mother say what she would , she could not bring her to it.
At last the mother was once so overcome with anger and impatience , that she beat her , on which the girl began to weep loudly.
Now at this very moment the Queen drove by , and when she heard the weeping she stopped her carriage , went into the house and asked the mother why she was beating her daughter so that the cries could be heard out on the road ? Then the woman was ashamed to reveal the laziness of her daughter and said , `` I can not get her to leave off spinning.
She insists on spinning for ever and ever , and I am poor , and can not procure the flax"
Then answered the Queen , `` There is nothing that I like better to hear than spinning , and I am never happier than when the wheels are humming.
Let me have your daughter with me in the palace.
I have flax enough , and there she shall spin as much as she likes"
The mother was heartily satisfied with this , and the Queen took the girl with her.
When they had arrived at the palace , she led her up into three rooms which were filled from the bottom to the top with the finest flax.
`` Now spin me this flax ,"
said she , `` and when thou hast done it , thou shalt have my eldest son for a husband , even if thou art poor.
I care not for that , thy indefatigable industry is dowry enough"
The girl was secretly terrified , for she could not have spun the flax , no , not if she had lived till she was three hundred years old , and had sat at it every day from morning till night.
When therefore she was alone , she began to weep , and sat thus for three days without moving a finger.
On the third day came the Queen , and when she saw that nothing had been spun yet , she was surprised ; but the girl excused herself by saying that she had not been able to begin because of her great distress at leaving her mother 's house.
The queen was satisfied with this , but said when she was going away , `` To-morrow thou must begin to work"
When the girl was alone again , she did not know what to do , and in her distress went to the window.
Then she saw three women coming towards her , the first of whom had a broad flat foot , the second had such a great underlip that it hung down over her chin , and the third had a broad thumb.
They remained standing before the window , looked up , and asked the girl what was amiss with her ? She complained of her trouble , and then they offered her their help and said , `` If thou wilt invite us to the wedding , not be ashamed of us , and wilt call us thine aunts , and likewise wilt place us at thy table , we will spin up the flax for thee , and that in a very short time"
`` With all my heart ,"
she replied , `` do but come in and begin the work at once"
Then she let in the three strange women , and cleared a place in the first room , where they seated themselves and began their spinning.
The one drew the thread and trod the wheel , the other wetted the thread , the third twisted it , and struck the table with her finger , and as often as she struck it , a skein of thread fell to the ground that was spun in the finest manner possible.
The girl concealed the three spinners from the Queen , and showed her whenever she came the great quantity of spun thread , until the latter could not praise her enough.
When the first room was empty she went to the second , and at last to the third , and that too was quickly cleared.
Then the three women took leave and said to the girl , `` Do not forget what thou hast promised us , -- it will make thy fortune"
When the maiden showed the Queen the empty rooms , and the great heap of yarn , she gave orders for the wedding , and the bridegroom rejoiced that he was to have such a clever and industrious wife , and praised her mightily.
`` I have three aunts ,"
said the girl , `` and as they have been very kind to me , I should not like to forget them in my good fortune ; allow me to invite them to the wedding , and let them sit with us at table"
The Queen and the bridegroom said , `` Why should we not allow that ?"
Therefore when the feast began , the three women entered in strange apparel , and the bride said , `` Welcome , dear aunts"
`` Ah ,"
said the bridegroom , `` how comest thou by these odious friends ?"
Thereupon he went to the one with the broad flat foot , and said , `` How do you come by such a broad foot ?"
`` By treading ,"
she answered , `` by treading"
Then the bridegroom went to the second , and said , `` How do you come by your falling lip ?"
`` By licking ,"
she answered , `` by licking"
Then he asked the third , `` How do you come by your broad thumb ?"
`` By twisting the thread ,"
she answered , `` by twisting the thread"
On this the King 's son was alarmed and said , `` Neither now nor ever shall my beautiful bride touch a spinning-wheel"
And thus she got rid of the hateful flax-spinning"
There was once upon a time a rich person_0 who had three daughters , who daily went to walk in the palace garden , and the person_0 was a great lover of all kinds of fine trees , but there was one for which he had such an affection , that if anyone gathered an apple from it he wished him a hundred fathoms underground.
And when harvest time came , the apples on this tree were all as red as blood.
The three daughters went every day beneath the tree , and looked to see if the wind had not blown down an apple , but they never by any chance found one , and the tree was so loaded with them that it was almost breaking , and the branches hung down to the ground.
Then the person_0 's youngest child had a great desire for an apple , and said to her sisters , `` Our father loves us far too much to wish us underground , it is my belief that he would only do that to people who were strangers"
And while she was speaking , the child plucked off quite a large apple , and ran to her sisters , saying , `` Just taste , my dear little sisters , for never in my life have I tasted anything so delightful"
Then the two other sisters also ate some of the apple , whereupon all three sank deep down into the earth , where they could hear no cock crow.
When mid-day came , the person_0 wished to call them to come to dinner , but they were nowhere to be found.
He sought them everywhere in the palace and garden , but could not find them.
Then he was much troubled , and made known to the whole land that whosoever brought his daughters back again should have one of them to wife.
Hereupon so many young men went about the country in search , that there was no counting them , for every one loved the three children because they were so kind to all , and so fair of face.
Three young huntsmen also went out , and when they had traveled about for eight days , they arrived at a great castle , in which were beautiful apartments , and in one room a table was laid on which were delicate dishes which were still so warm that they were smoking , but in the whole of the castle no human being was either to be seen or heard.
They waited there for half a day , and the food still remained warm and smoking , and at length they were so hungry that they sat down and ate , and agreed with each other that they would stay and live in that castle , and that one of them , who should be chosen by casting lots , should remain in the house , and the two others seek the person_0 's daughters.
They cast lots , and the lot fell on the eldest ; so next day the two younger went out to seek , and the eldest had to stay home.
At mid-day came a small , small mannikin and begged for a piece of bread , then the huntsman took the bread which he had found there , and cut a round off the loaf and was about to give it to him , but whilst he was giving it to the mannikin , the latter let it fall , and asked the huntsman to be so good as to give him that piece again.
The huntsman was about to do so and stooped , on which the mannikin took a stick , seized him by the hair , and gave him a good beating.
Next day , the second stayed at home , and he fared no better.
When the two others returned in the evening , the eldest said , `` Well , how have you got on ?"
`` Oh , very badly ,"
said he , and then they lamented their misfortune together , but they said nothing about it to the youngest , for they did not like him at all , and always called him Stupid Hans , because he did not exactly belong to the forest.
On the third day , the youngest stayed at home , and again the little mannikin came and begged for a piece of bread.
When the youth gave it to him , the elf let it fall as before , and asked him to be so good as to give him that piece again.
Then said Hans to the little mannikin , `` What ! canst thou not pick up that piece thyself ? If thou wilt not take as much trouble as that for thy daily bread , thou dost not deserve to have it"
Then the mannikin grew very angry and said he was to do it , but the huntsman would not , and took my dear mannikin , and gave him a thorough beating.
Then the mannikin screamed terribly , and cried , `` Stop , stop , and let me go , and I will tell thee where the person_0 's daughters are"
When Hans heard that , he left off beating him and the mannikin told him that he was an earth mannikin , and that there were more than a thousand like him , and that if he would go with him he would show him where the person_0 's daughters were.
Then he showed him a deep well , but there was no water in it.
And the elf said that he knew well that the companions Hans had with him did not intend to deal honourably with him , therefore if he wished to deliver the person_0 's children , he must do it alone.
The two other brothers would also be very glad to recover the person_0 's daughters , but they did not want to have any trouble or danger.
Hans was therefore to take a large basket , and he must seat himself in it with his hanger and a bell , and be let down.
Below were three rooms , and in each of them was a princess , with a many-headed dragon , whose heads she was to comb and trim , but he must cut them off.
And having said all this , the elf vanished.
When it was evening the two brothers came and asked how he had got on , and he said , `` pretty well so far ,"
and that he had seen no one except at mid-day when a little mannikin had come and begged for a piece of bread , that he had given some to him , but that the mannikin had let it fall and had asked him to pick it up again ; but as he did not choose to do that , the elf had begun to lose his temper , and that he had done what he ought not , and had given the elf a beating , on which he had told him where the person_0 's daughters were.
Then the two were so angry at this that they grew green and yellow.
Next morning they went to the well together , and drew lots who should first seat himself in the basket , and again the lot fell on the eldest , and he was to seat himself in it , and take the bell with him.
Then he said , `` If I ring , you must draw me up again immediately"
When he had gone down for a short distance , he rang , and they at once drew him up again.
Then the second seated himself in the basket , but he did just the same as the first , and then it was the turn of the youngest , but he let himself be lowered quite to the bottom.
When he had got out of the basket , he took his hanger , and went and stood outside the first door and listened , and heard the dragon snoring quite loudly.
He opened the door slowly , and one of the princesses was sitting there , and had nine dragon 's heads lying upon her lap , and was combing them.
Then he took his hanger and hewed at them , and the nine fell off.
The princess sprang up , threw her arms round his neck , embraced and kissed him repeatedly , and took her stomacher , which was made of pure gold , and hung it round his neck.
Then he went to the second princess , who had a dragon with five heads to comb , and delivered her also , and to the youngest , who had a dragon with four heads , he went likewise.
And they all rejoiced , and embraced him and kissed him without stopping.
Then he rang very loud , so that those above heard him , and he placed the princesses one after the other in the basket , and had them all drawn up , but when it came to his own turn he remembered the words of the elf , who had told him that his comrades did not mean well by him.
So he took a great stone which was lying there , and placed it in the basket , and when it was about half way up , his false brothers above cut the rope , so that the basket with the stone fell to the ground , and they thought that he was dead , and ran away with the three princesses , making them promise to tell their father that it was they who had delivered them , and then they went to the person_0 , and each demanded a princess in marriage.
In the meantime the youngest huntsman was wandering about the three chambers in great trouble , fully expecting to have to end his days there , when he saw , hanging on the wall , a flute ; then said he , `` Why dost thou hang there , no one can be merry here ?"
He looked at the dragons , heads likewise and said , `` You too can not help me now"
He walked backwards and forwards for such a long time that he made the surface of the ground quite smooth.
But at last other thoughts came to his mind , and he took the flute from the wall , and played a few notes on it , and suddenly a"
In old times when wishing still helped one , there lived a king whose daughters were all beautiful , but the youngest was so beautiful that the sun itself , which has seen so much , was astonished whenever it shone in her face.
Close by the person_0 's castle lay a great dark forest , and under an old lime-tree in the forest was a well , and when the day was very warm , the person_0 's child went out into the forest and sat down by the side of the cool fountain , and when she was dull she took a golden ball , and threw it up on high and caught it , and this ball was her favorite plaything.
Now it so happened that on one occasion the princess 's golden ball did not fall into the little hand which she was holding up for it , but on to the ground beyond , and rolled straight into the water.
The person_0 's daughter followed it with her eyes , but it vanished , and the well was deep , so deep that the bottom could not be seen.
On this she began to cry , and cried louder and louder , and could not be comforted.
And as she thus lamented some one said to her , `` What ails thee , person_0 's daughter ? Thou weepest so that even a stone would show pity"
She looked round to the side from whence the voice came , and saw a frog stretching forth its thick , ugly head from the water.
`` Ah ! old water-splasher , is it thou ?"
said she ; `` I am weeping for my golden ball , which has fallen into the well"
`` Be quiet , and do not weep ,"
answered the frog , `` I can help thee , but what wilt thou give me if I bring thy plaything up again ?"
`` Whatever thou wilt have , dear frog ,"
said she -- `` My clothes , my pearls and jewels , and even the golden crown which I am wearing"
The frog answered , `` I do not care for thy clothes , thy pearls and jewels , or thy golden crown , but if thou wilt love me and let me be thy companion and play-fellow , and sit by thee at thy little table , and eat off thy little golden plate , and drink out of thy little cup , and sleep in thy little bed -- if thou wilt promise me this I will go down below , and bring thee thy golden ball up again"
`` Oh yes ,"
said she , `` I promise thee all thou wishest , if thou wilt but bring me my ball back again"
She , however , thought , `` How the silly frog does talk ! He lives in the water with the other frogs , and croaks , and can be no companion to any human being !"
But the frog when he had received this promise , put his head into the water and sank down , and in a short while came swimmming up again with the ball in his mouth , and threw it on the grass.
The person_0 's daughter was delighted to see her pretty plaything once more , and picked it up , and ran away with it.
`` Wait , wait ,"
said the frog.
`` Take me with thee.
I ca n't run as thou canst"
But what did it avail him to scream his croak , croak , after her , as loudly as he could ? She did not listen to it , but ran home and soon forgot the poor frog , who was forced to go back into his well again.
The next day when she had seated herself at table with the person_0 and all the courtiers , and was eating from her little golden plate , something came creeping splish splash , splish splash , up the marble staircase , and when it had got to the top , it knocked at the door and cried , `` Princess , youngest princess , open the door for me"
She ran to see who was outside , but when she opened the door , there sat the frog in front of it.
Then she slammed the door to , in great haste , sat down to dinner again , and was quite frightened.
The person_0 saw plainly that her heart was beating violently , and said , `` My child , what art thou so afraid of ? Is there perchance a giant outside who wants to carry thee away ?"
`` Ah , no ,"
replied she.
`` It is no giant but a disgusting frog"
`` What does a frog want with thee ?"
`` Ah , dear father , yesterday as I was in the forest sitting by the well , playing , my golden ball fell into the water.
And because I cried so , the frog brought it out again for me , and because he so insisted , I promised him he should be my companion , but I never thought he would be able to come out of his water ! And now he is outside there , and wants to come in to me"
In the meantime it knocked a second time , and cried , `` Princess ! youngest princess ! Open the door for me ! Dost thou not know what thou saidst to me Yesterday by the cool waters of the fountain ? Princess , youngest princess ! Open the door for me !"
Then said the person_0 , `` That which thou hast promised must thou perform.
Go and let him in"
She went and opened the door , and the frog hopped in and followed her , step by step , to her chair.
There he sat and cried , `` Lift me up beside thee"
She delayed , until at last the person_0 commanded her to do it.
When the frog was once on the chair he wanted to be on the table , and when he was on the table he said , `` Now , push thy little golden plate nearer to me that we may eat together"
She did this , but it was easy to see that she did not do it willingly.
The frog enjoyed what he ate , but almost every mouthful she took choked her.
At length he said , `` I have eaten and am satisfied ; now I am tired , carry me into thy little room and make thy little silken bed ready , and we will both lie down and go to sleep"
The person_0 's daughter began to cry , for she was afraid of the cold frog which she did not like to touch , and which was now to sleep in her pretty , clean little bed.
But the person_0 grew angry and said , `` He who helped thee when thou wert in trouble ought not afterwards to be despised by thee"
So she took hold of the frog with two fingers , carried him upstairs , and put him in a corner.
But when she was in bed he crept to her and said , `` I am tired , I want to sleep as well as thou , lift me up or I will tell thy father"
Then she was terribly angry , and took him up and threw him with all her might against the wall.
`` Now , thou wilt be quiet , odious frog ,"
said she.
But when he fell down he was no frog but a person_0 's son with beautiful kind eyes.
He by her father 's will was now her dear companion and husband.
Then he told her how he had been bewitched by a wicked witch , and how no one could have delivered him from the well but herself , and that to-morrow they would go together into his kingdom.
Then they went to sleep , and next morning when the sun awoke them , a carriage came driving up with eight white horses , which had white ostrich feathers on their heads , and were harnessed with golden chains , and behind stood the young person_0 's servant Faithful Henry.
Faithful Henry had been so unhappy when his master was changed into a frog , that he had caused three iron bands to be laid round his heart , lest it should burst with grief and sadness.
The carriage was to conduct the young person_0 into his person_0dom.
Faithful Henry helped them both in , and placed himself behind again , and was full of joy because of this deliverance.
And when they had driven a part of the way the person_0 's son heard a cracking behind him as if something had broken.
So he turned round and cried , `` Henry , the carriage is breaking"
`` No , master , it is not the carriage.
It is a band from my heart , which was put there in my great pain when you were a frog and imprisoned in the well"
Again and once again while they were on their way something cracked , and each time the person_0 's son thought the carriage was breaking ; but it was only the bands which were springing from the heart of faithful Henry because his master was set free and was happy"
There was once a poor peasant who had no land , but only a small house , and one daughter.
Then said the daughter , `` We ought to ask our lord the person_0 for a bit of newly-cleared land"
When the person_0 heard of their poverty , he presented them with a piece of land , which she and her father dug up , and intended to sow with a little corn and grain of that kind.
When they had dug nearly the whole of the field , they found in the earth a mortar made of pure gold.
`` Listen ,"
said the father to the girl , `` as our lord the person_0 has been so gracious and presented us with the field , we ought to give him this mortar in return for it"
The daughter , however , would not consent to this , and said , `` Father , if we have the mortar without having the pestle as well , we shall have to get the pestle , so you had much better say nothing about it"
He would , however , not obey her , but took the mortar and carried it to the person_0 , said that he had found it in the cleared land , and asked if he would accept it as a present.
The person_0 took the mortar , and asked if he had found nothing besides that ? `` No ,"
answered the countryman.
Then the person_0 said that he must now bring him the pestle.
The peasant said they had not found that , but he might just as well have spoken to the wind ; he was put in prison , and was to stay there until he produced the pestle.
The servants had daily to carry him bread and water , which is what people get in prison , and they heard how the man cried out continually , `` Ah ! if I had but listened to my daughter ! Alas , alas , if I had but listened to my daughter !"
and would neither eat nor drink.
So he commanded the servants to bring the prisoner before him , and then the person_0 asked the peasant why he was always crying , `` Ah ! if I had but listened to my daughter !"
and what it was that his daughter had said.
`` She told me that I ought not to take the mortar to you , for I should have to produce the pestle as well"
`` If you have a daughter who is as wise as that , let her come here"
She was therefore obliged to appear before the person_0 , who asked her if she really was so wise , and said he would set her a riddle , and if she could guess that , he would marry her.
She at once said yes , she would guess it.
Then said the person_0 , `` Come to me not clothed , not naked , not riding , not walking , not in the road , and not out of the road , and if thou canst do that I will marry thee"
So she went away , put off everything she had on , and then she was not clothed , and took a great fishing net , and seated herself in it and wrapped it entirely round and round her , so that she was not naked , and she hired an ass , and tied the fisherman 's net to its tail , so that it was forced to drag her along , and that was neither riding nor walking.
The ass had also to drag her in the ruts , so that she only touched the ground with her great toe , and that was neither being in the road nor out of the road.
And when she arrived in that fashion , the person_0 said she had guessed the riddle and fulfilled all the conditions.
Then he ordered her father to be released from the prison , took her to wife , and gave into her care all the royal possessions.
Now when some years had passed , the person_0 was once drawing up his troops on parade , when it happened that some peasants who had been selling wood stopped with their waggons before the palace ; some of them had oxen yoked to them , and some horses.
There was one peasant who had three horses , one of which was delivered of a young foal , and it ran away and lay down between two oxen which were in front of the waggon.
When the peasants came together , they began to dispute , to beat each other and make a disturbance , and the peasant with the oxen wanted to keep the foal , and said one of the oxen had given birth to it , and the other said his horse had had it , and that it was his.
The quarrel came before the person_0 , and he give the verdict that the foal should stay where it had been found , and so the peasant with the oxen , to whom it did not belong , got it.
Then the other went away , and wept and lamented over his foal.
Now he had heard how gracious his lady the Queen was because she herself had sprung from poor peasant folks , so he went to her and begged her to see if she could not help him to get his foal back again.
Said she , `` Yes , I will tell you what to do , if thou wilt promise me not to betray me.
Early to-morrow morning , when the person_0 parades the guard , place thyself there in the middle of the road by which he must pass , take a great fishing-net and pretend to be fishing ; go on fishing , too , and empty out the net as if thou hadst got it full"
and then she told him also what he was to say if he was questioned by the person_0.
The next day , therefore , the peasant stood there , and fished on dry ground.
When the person_0 passed by , and saw that , he sent his messenger to ask what the stupid man was about ? He answered , `` I am fishing"
The messenger asked how he could fish when there was no water there ? The peasant said , `` It is as easy for me to fish on dry land as it is for an ox to have a foal"
The messenger went back and took the answer to the person_0 , who ordered the peasant to be brought to him and told him that this was not his own idea , and he wanted to know whose it was ? The peasant must confess this at once.
The peasant , however , would not do so , and said always , God forbid he should ! the idea was his own.
They laid him , however , on a heap of straw , and beat him and tormented him so long that at last he admitted that he had got the idea from the Queen.
When the person_0 reached home again , he said to his wife , `` Why hast thou behaved so falsely to me ? I will not have thee any longer for a wife ; thy time is up , go back to the place from whence thou camest to thy peasant 's hut"
One favor , however , he granted her ; she might take with her the one thing that was dearest and best in her eyes ; and thus was she dismissed.
She said , `` Yes , my dear husband , if you command this , I will do it ,"
and she embraced him and kissed him , and said she would take leave of him.
Then she ordered a powerful sleeping draught to be brought , to drink farewell to him ; the person_0 took a long draught , but she took only a little.
He soon fell into a deep sleep , and when she perceived that , she called a servant and took a fair white linen cloth and wrapped the person_0 in it , and the servant was forced to carry him into a carriage that stood before the door , and she drove with him to her own little house.
She laid him in her own little bed , and he slept one day and one night without awakening , and when he awoke he looked round and said , `` Good God ! where am I ?"
He called his attendants , but none of them were there.
At length his wife came to his bedside and said , `` My dear lord and person_0 , you told me I might bring away with me from the palace that which was dearest and most precious in my eyes I have nothing more precious and dear than yourself , so I have brought you with me"
Tears rose to the person_0 's eyes and he said , `` Dear wife , thou shalt be mine and I will be thine ,"
and he took her back with him to the royal palace and was married again to her , and at the present time they are very likely still living"
ONCE in summer-time the bear and the wolf were walking in the forest , and the bear heard a bird singing so beautifully that he said , `` Brother wolf , what bird is it that sings so well ?"
`` That is the person_0 of birds ,"
said the wolf , `` before whom we must bow down"
It was , however , in reality the willow-wren -LRB- Zaunk nig -RRB-.
`` If that 's the case ,"
said the bear , `` I should very much like to see his royal palace ; come , take me thither"
`` That is not done quite as you seem to think ,"
said the wolf ; `` you must wait until the person_1 comes"
Soon afterwards , the person_1 arrived with some food in her beak , and the lord person_0 came too , and they began to feed their young ones.
The bear would have liked to go at once , but the wolf held him back by the sleeve , and said , `` No , you must wait until the lord and lady person_1 have gone away again"
So they observed the hole in which was the nest , and trotted away.
The bear , however , could not rest until he had seen the royal palace , and when a short time had passed , again went to it.
The person_0 and person_1 had just flown out , so he peeped in and saw five or six young ones lying in it.
`` Is that the royal palace ?"
cried the bear ; `` it is a wretched palace , and you are not person_0 's children , you are disreputable children !"
When the young wrens heard that , they were frightfully angry , and screamed , `` No , that we are not ! Our parents are honest people ! Bear , thou wilt have to pay for that !"
The bear and the wolf grew uneasy , and turned back and went into their holes.
The young willow-wrens , however , continued to cry and scream , and when their parents again brought food they said , `` We will not so much as touch one fly 's leg , no , not if we were dying of hunger , until you have settled whether we are respectable children or not ; the bear has been here and has insulted us !"
Then the old person_0 said , `` Be easy , he shall be punished ,"
and he at once flew with the person_1 to the bear 's cave , and called in , `` Old Growler , why hast thou insulted my children ? Thou shalt suffer for it we will punish thee by a bloody war"
Thus war was announced to the Bear , and all four-footed animals were summoned to take part in it , oxen , asses , cows , deer , and every other animal the earth contained.
And the willow-wren summoned everything which flew in the air , not only birds , large and small , but midges , and hornets , bees and flies had to come.
When the time came for the war to begin , the willow-wren sent out spies to discover who was the enemy 's commander-in-chief.
The gnat , who was the most crafty , flew into the forest where the enemy was assembled , and hid herself beneath a leaf of the tree where the watchword was to be given.
There stood the bear , and he called the fox before him and said , `` Fox , thou art the most cunning of all animals , thou shalt be general and lead us"
`` Good ,"
said the fox , `` but what signal shall we agree upon ?"
No one knew that , so the fox said , `` I have a fine long bushy tail , which almost looks like a plume of red feathers.
When I lift my tail up quite high , all is going well , and you must charge ; but if I let it hang down , run away as fast as you can"
When the gnat had heard that , she flew away again , and revealed everything , with the greatest minuteness , to the willow-wren.
When day broke , and the battle was to begin , all the four-footed animals came running up with such a noise that the earth trembled.
The willow-wren also came flying through the air with his army with such a humming , and whirring , and swarming that every one was uneasy and afraid , and on both sides they advanced against each other.
But the willow-wren sent down the hornet , with orders to get beneath the fox 's tail , and sting with all his might.
When the fox felt the first sting , he started so that he drew up one leg , with the pain , but he bore it , and still kept his tail high in the air ; at the second sting , he was forced to put it down for a moment ; at the third , he could hold out no longer , and screamed out and put his tail between his legs.
When the animals saw that , they thought all was lost , and began to fly , each into his hole and the birds had won the battle.
Then the person_0 and person_1 flew home to their children and cried , `` Children , rejoice , eat and drink to your heart 's content , we have won the battle !"
But the young wrens said , `` We will not eat yet , the bear must come to the nest , and beg for pardon and say that we are honorable children , before we will do that"
Then the willow-wren flew to the bear 's hole and cried , `` Growler , thou art to come to the nest to my children , and beg their pardon , or else every rib of thy body shall be broken"
So the bear crept thither in the greatest fear , and begged their pardon.
And now at last the young wrens were satisfied , and sat down together and ate and drank , and made merry till quite late into the night"
A CERTAIN pious rector -LRB- person_0 his name -RRB- , person_1 little preached , except when vintage came ; person_2 then no preparation he required On this he triumphed and was much admired.
Another point he handled very well , Though oft ` ner he 'd thereon have liked to dwell , person_2 this the children of the present day , So fully know , there 's naught for me to say : person_0 to the senses things so clearly brought , That much by wives and husbands he was sought , Who held his knowledge of superior price , person_2 paid attention to his sage advice.
Around , whatever conscience he might find , To soft delights and easy ways inclined , In person he would rigidly attend , person_2 seek to act the confessor and friend ; Not e ` en his curate would he trust with these ; person_1 zealously he tried to give them ease , person_2 ev ` ry where would due attention show , Observing that divines should always know Their flocks most thoroughly and visit round ; To give instruction and the truth expound.
AMONG the folks , to whom he visits paid , Was neighbor person_3 , one who used the spade ; A villager that God , in lieu of lands , Had furnished only with a pair of hands , To dig and delve , and by the mattock gain Enough his wife and children to maintain.
Still youthful charms you in his spouse might trace ; The weather injured solely had her face , person_1 not the features which were perfect yet : Some wish perhaps more blooming belles to get ; The rustick truly me would ne'er have pleased ; person_1 such are oft by country parsons seized , Who low amours and dishes coarse admire , That palates more refined would not desire.
THE pastor person_0 would often on her leer , just as a cur , when store of bones are near , That would good pickings for his teeth afford , Attentively behold the precious hoard , person_2 seem uneasy ; move his feet and tail ; Now prick his ears ; then fear he ca n't prevail , The eyes still fixed upon the bite in sight , Which twenty times to these affords delight , Ere to his longing jaws the boon arrives , However anxiously the suitor strives.
SELF-TORMENTS solely parson person_0 obtained ; By seeing her that o ` er his senses reigned.
The village-wife was innocent of this , person_2 never dreamed of any thing amiss ; The pastor 's mystick looks , nor flatt ` ring ways ; Nor presents , aught in Magdalene could raise ; person_1 nosegays made of thyme , and marj ` ram too , Were dropt on ground , or never kept in view ; A hundred little cares appeared as naught 'Twas Welch to her , and ne'er conveyed a thought.
A pleasant stratagem he now contrived , From which , he hoped , success might be derived.
MOST clearly person_3 was a heavy lout , Yet truly I could never have a doubt , That rashly he would ne'er himself commit , Though folly ` twere from him to look for wit , Or aught expect by questioning to find ` Yond this to reason , he was not designed.
THE rector to him said , thou ` rt poor , my friend , person_2 hast not half enough for food to spend , With other things that necessary prove , If we below with comfort wish to move.
Some day I 'll show thee how thou may ` st procure The means that will thy happiness insure , person_2 make thee feel contented as a king.
To me what present for it wilt thou bring ? ZOOKS ! person_3 answered , parson , I desire , You 'll me direct to do as you require ; My labor pray command ; ` tis all I 've got ; Our pig howe'er to you we can allot , We want it not ; and truly it has eat More bran than thrice this vessel would complete ; The cow you 'll take besides , from which my wife A calf expects , to raise the means of life.
No , no , the pastor with a smile replied , A recompense for this thou ` lt not provide ; My neighbor to oblige is all I heed ; person_2 now I 'll tell thee how thou must proceed ; Thy spouse , by magick , I 'll transform each day , person_2 turn her to a mare for cart or dray , person_2 then again restore her ev ` ry night , To human form to give thy heart delight.
From this to thee great profit will arise ; Thy ass , so slow is found , that when supplies , It carries to the market , ` tis so late , The hour is almost past ere at the gate , person_2 then thy cabbages , and herbs , and roots , Provisions , provender , and wares and fruits , Remain unsold , and home to spoil are brought , Since rarely far from thence such things are sought.
person_1 when thy wife 's a mare , she 'll faster go : Strong , active , ev ` ry way her worth she 'll show , person_2 home will come without expense in meat : No soup nor bread , but solely herbs she 'll eat : SAID person_3 , parson , clearly you are wise ; From learning , what advantages arise ! Is this pray sold ? -- If I 'd much money got , To make the purchase I 'd the cash allot.
CONTINUED person_0 : -- now I will thee instruct , The proper manner , matters to conduct , For thee to have a clever mare by day , person_2 still at night a charming wife survey ; Face , legs , and ev ` ry thing shall reappear ; Come , see it done , and I 'll perform it here ; Thou ` lt then the method fully comprehend ; person_1 hold thy tongue , or all will quickly end : A single word the magick would dispel , person_2 , during life , no more with us ` twould dwell.
Keep close thy mouth and merely ope ' thy eyes : A glimpse alone to learn it will suffice ; This o ` er , thyself shall practice it the same , person_2 all will follow as when first it came.
THE husband promised he would hold his tongue ; person_2 disliked deferring matters long.
Come , Magdalene , said he , you will undress ; To quit those Sunday-clothes , you 'll acquiesce , person_2 put yourself in Nature 's pure array Well , well , proceed ; with stays and sleeves away ; That 's better still ; now petticoats lay by ; How nicely with my orders you comply.
WHEN Magdalene was to the linen come , Some marks of shame around her senses swum ; A wife to live and die was her desire , Much rather than be seen in Eve 's attire ; She vowed that , spite of what the priest disclosed ; She never would consent to be exposed.
SAID person_3 , pretty work , upon my truth : -- Not let us see how you are made forsooth ! What silly scruples ! -- Are they in your creed ? You were not always led such scenes to heed : Pray how d'ye manage when for fleas you seek ? ` Tis strange , good sir , that she should be so weak ; What can you fear ? -- ` tis folly time to waste ; He will not eat you : come , I say , make haste : Have done with haggling ; had you acted right , Ere now the parson all had finished quite.
ON saying this , her garment off he took ; Put on his spectacles to overlook ; person_2 parson person_0 , without delay , began ; Said he -LRB- as o ` er her person now he ran -RRB- , This part umbilical will make the mare A noble breast , and strength at once declare : Then further on the pastor placed his hand , While , with the other , -LRB- as a magick wand , -RRB- He set about transforming mounts of snow ; That in our climes a genial warmth bestow , person_2 semi-globes are called , while those that rise In t ` other hemisphere , of larger size , Are seldom mentioned , through respect no doubt , person_1 these howe'er the parson , quite devout , Would not neglect , and whatsoe'er he felt , He always named , and on its beauties dwelt ; The ceremony this , it seems , required , person_2 fully ev ` ry movement person_0 admired.
PROCEEDINGS so minute gave person_3 pain , person_2 as he could not see the rector gain The slightest change , he prayed the pow ` rs divine , To give assistance to the priest 's design ; person_1 this was vain , since all the magick spell , In metamorphosing the lady well , Depended on the fixing of the tail ; Without this ornament the whole would fail.
To set it on the parson hastened now , When Neighbour person_3 ` gan to knit his brow , person_2 bawled so loud , you might have heard him far : No tail , said he , I 'll have : there 'll be a scar ; You put it on too low ; but vain his cries , The husband 's diligence would not suffice , For , spite of ev ` ry effort , much was done , person_2 completely his career had run , If person_3 had not pulled the rector 's gown , Who hastily replied , thou ninny , clown ; Did I not tell thee silence to observe , person_2 not a footstep from thy station swerve ? The whole is spoiled , insufferable elf ! person_2 for it thou hast got to thank thyself.
THE husband , while the holy pastor spoke , Appeared to grumble and his stars invoke.
The wife was in a rage , and ` gan to scold : Said she to person_3 , wretch that I behold ! Thou ` lt be through life a prey to pain and grief , Come not to me and bray and hope relief , The worthy pastor would have us procured The means that might much comfort have ensured.
Can he deserve such treatment to receive ? Good Mister person_0 this goose I now would leave , person_2 ev ` ry morning , while he gathers fruits , Or plants , herbs , cabbages , and various roots , Without averting him , pray , here repair , You 'll soon transform me to a charming mare.
No mare , replied the husband , I desire ; An ass for me is all that I require"
SOLICITED I 've been to give a tale , In which -LRB- though true , decorum must prevail -RRB- , The subject from a picture shall arise , That by a curtain 's kept from vulgar eyes.
My brain must furnish various features new : person_0 's delicate and smart produce to view ; By this expressed , and not by t ` other said : person_3 all so clear , most easy to be read , By ev ` ry fool , without the aid of notes , That idiot 's bad indeed who never quotes.
CATULLUS tells us , ev ` ry matron sage Will peep most willingly -LRB- whate'er her age -RRB- , At that gigantick gift , which Juno made , To Venus ' fruit , in gardens oft displayed.
If any belle recede , and shun the sight , Dissimulation she supposes right.
THIS principle allowed , why scruples make ? Why , less than eyes , should ears a license take ? But since ` tis so resolved I 'll do my best , person_3 naught in open terms shall be expressed : A veil shall over ev ` ry charm be cast , Of gauze indeed , and this from first to last , So nicely done , that howsoever tost , To none I trust will any thing be lost.
Who nicely thinks , and speaks with graceful ease ; Can current make just whatsoe'er he please ; For all will pass , as I have often known : The word well chosen , pardon soon is shown , The sex o ` erlook the thing no more the same , The thought remains , but ` tis without a name ; No blush is raised ; no difficulty found ; Yet ev ` ry body understands around.
AT present , much I need this useful art : Why ? you will ask ; because , when I impart Such wondrous circumstances , ev ` ry belle , Without reserve , will con them over well.
To this I answer : female ears are chaste , Though roguish are their eyes , as well as taste.
BE that as ` twill , I certainly should like , With freedom to explain , by terms oblique , To belles , how this was broken : -- that was down : Assist me pray , ye NINE of high renown ; But you are maids , and strangers , we agree , To LOVE 'S soft scenes , not knowing A from B.
Remain then , Muses , never stir an inch , But beg the god of verse , when at a pinch , To help me out and kind assistance lend , To choose expressions which will not offend , Lest I some silly things should chance to say , That might displeasure raise , and spoil my lay.
Enough , howe'er , we 've on the subject said : ` Tis time we t ` wards the painting should be led , Which an adventure you will find contains , That happened once in person_1 's famed domains.
IN former days , just by Cythera town A monastery was , of some renown , With nuns the queens of beauty filled the place , person_3 gay gallants you easily might trace.
The courtier , citizen , and parson too , The doctor and the bachelor you 'd view , With eager steps : -- all visits thither made ; person_3 ` mong the latter , one -LRB- a pleasing blade -RRB- Had free access : was thought a prudent friend , Who might to sisters many comforts lend ; Was always closely shaved and nicely dressed ; person_3 ev ` ry thing he said was well expressed ; The breath of scandal , howsoever pat , Ne'er lighted on his neat cravat nor hat.
TWO nuns alternatively , from the youth ; Experienced many services , in truth ; The one had recently a novice been ; Few months had passed since she complete was seen ; The other still the dress of novice wore ; The youngest 's age was seventeen years , not more Time doubtless very proper -LRB- to be plain -RRB- Love 's wily thesis fully to sustain : The bachelor so well the fair had taught , person_3 they so earnestly the science sought , That by experience both the art had learned , person_3 ev ` ry thing most perfectly discerned.
THESE sisters eagerly had made one day An assignation with the lover gay ; To have the entertainment quite complete , They 'd Bacchus , Ceres too , who Venus greet : With perfect neatness all the meats were served , person_3 naught from grace and elegancy swerved ; The wines , the custards , jellies , creams , and ice : The decorations , ev ` ry thing was nice ; person_0 pleasing objects and delights were viewed ! The room with sweetest flow ` rs fair Flora strewed ; A sort of garden o ` er the linen traced Here lakes of love : -- there names entwined were placed ; Magnificence like this the nuns admired , person_3 such amusements ardently desired.
Their beauty too incited to be free ; A thousand matters filled their souls with glee ; In height the belles were pretty much the same Like alabaster fair ; of perfect frame ; In num ` rous corners person_1 nestling lay : Beneath a stomacher he 'd slyly play , A veil or scapulary , this or that , Where least the eye of day perceived he sat , Unless a lover called to mystick bow ` rs , Where he might hearts entwine with chains of flow ` rs ; A thousand times a day the urchin flew , With open arms the sisters to pursue ; Their charms were such in ev ` ry air and look , Both -LRB- one by one -RRB- he for his mother took.
WITH anxious looks , the ladies thus prepared , Expected him who all their kindness shared ; Now they bestowed abuse ; next fondly praised : Then of his conduct dark suspicions raised , Conceived , a new amour him kept away : person_0 can it be , said one , that makes him stay ? Of honor an affair.
-- love -- sickness -- what ? Said t ` other whether it be this or that , If here again his face he ever show , A pretty trick in turn we 'll let him know.
WHILE thus the couple sought their plot to frame , A convent porter with a burden came , For her who kept the stores of ev ` ry kind , Depositary of the whole designed.
'Twas merely a pretence , as I am told : The things were not required for young or old ; But she much appetite had got in truth , Which made her have recourse to such a youth , Who was regarded , in repasts like these , A first rate cook that all prepared at ease.
THIS awkward , heavy lout mistook the cell ; By chance upon our ladies ' room he fell , person_3 knocked with weighty hands : they ope 'd the door.
person_3 gave abuse , but soon their anger o ` er , The nuns conceived a treasure they had found , person_3 , laughing heartily , no longer frowned , But both exclaimed at once : let 's take this fool ; Of him we easily can make a tool ; As well as t ` other , do n't you think he 'll do ? The eldest added : -- let 's our whim pursue ; ` Tis well determined ; -- person_0 were we to get , That here we waited , and are waiting yet ? Fine words and phrases ; nothing of the kind ; This wight 's as good , for what we have a mind , As any bachelor or doctor wise At all events , for present , he 'll suffice.
SHE rightly judged ; his height , form , simple air , person_3 ev ` ry act , so clearly void of care , Raised expectation ; this was AEsop 's man , He never thought : 'twas all without a plan ; Both ate and drank , and , had he been at will , Would matters far have pushed , though void of skill.
FAMILIAR grown , the fellow ready seemed , To execute whate'er was proper deemed ; To serve the convent he was porter made , person_3 in their wishes nuns of course obeyed.
` TIS here begins the subject we 've in view , The scene that faithfully our painter drew ; Apollo , give me aid , assistance lend , Enable me , I pray , to comprehend , Why this mean stupid rustick sat at ease , person_3 left the sisters -LRB- Claudia , formed to please , person_3 lovely fair person_2 -RRB- all the care ? Had he not better done to give a chair ? I THINK I hear the god of verse reply : Not quite so fast my friend , you may rely , These matters never can the probe endure ; I understand you ; person_1 , to be sure , Is doubtless found a very roguish boy , Who , though he please at times , will oft annoy ; I 'm wrong a wicked whelp like this to take , person_3 , master of the ceremonies make.
NO sooner in a house the urchin gets , But rules and laws he at defiance sets ; The place of reason whim at once assumes , Breaks ev ` ry obstacle , frets , rages , fumes.
With scenes like these will person_1 oft surprise , person_3 frantick passion sparkle in his eyes.
SOON on the floor was seen this boorish wight ; For , whether that the chair was rather slight , Or that the composition of the clown Was not , like that of geese , of softest down , Or that person_2 , by her gay discourse , Had penetrated to the mystick source , The am ` rous pulpit suddenly gave way , person_3 on the ground the rustick quickly lay.
The first attempt had clearly bad success , person_3 fair person_2 suffered you may guess.
YE censors keep from hence your eyes prophane ; See , honest hearts , how Claudia tried amain , To take advantage of the dire mishap , person_3 all she could , with eagerness entrap ; For in the fall person_2 lost her hold ; The other pushed her : -- further off she rolled ; person_3"
TO serve the shop as ` prentice was the lot ; Of one who had the name of person_2 got ; A lad quite ignorant beyond his trade , person_3 what arithmetick might lend him aid ; A perfect novice in the wily art , That in amours is used to win the heart.
Good tradesmen formerly were late to learn The tricks that soon in friars we discern ; They ne'er were known those lessons to begin , Till more than down appeared upon the chin.
person_1 now-a-days , in practice , ` tis confessed , These shopkeepers are knowing as the best.
OUR lad of ancient date was less advanced ; At scenes of love his eyes had never glanced ; Be that as ` twill , he now was in the way , person_3 naught but want of wit produced delay : A belle indeed had on him set her heart His master 's daughter felt LOVE 'S poignant smart ; A girl of most engaging mind and mien , person_3 always steady in her conduct seen.
Sincerity of soul or humor free , Or whether with her taste it might agree , A fool 'twas clear presided o ` er her soul , person_3 all her thoughts and actions felt control.
Some bold gallant would p ` erhaps inform her plain , She ever kept wild Folly in her train , person_3 nothing say to me who tales relate ; person_1 oft on reason such proceedings wait.
If you a goddess love , advance she 'll make ; Our belle the same advantages would take.
Her fortune , wit , and charm , attention drew , person_3 many sparks would anxiously pursue ; How happy he who should her heart obtain , person_3 Hymen prove he had not sighed in vain ! person_1 she had promised , to the modest youth , Who first was named , her confidence and truth ; The little god of pleasing soft desire With full compliance with his whims require.
THe belle was pleased the ` prentice to prefer : A handsome lad with truth we may aver , Quite young , well made , with fascinating eye : Such charms are ne'er despised we may rely , person_1 treasures thought , no FAIR will e ` er neglect ; Whate'er her senses say , she 'll these respect.
For one that LOVE lays hold of by the soul , A thousand by the eyes receive control.
THIS sprightly girl with soft endearing ease , Exerted ev ` ry care the lad to please , person_0 his regards she never shy appeared ; Now pinched his arm , then smiled and often leered ; Her hand across his eyes would sometimes put ; At others try to step upon his foot.
person_0 this he nothing offered in reply , Though oft his throbbing bosom heaved a sigh.
So many tender scenes , at length we find , Produced the explanation LOVE designed ; The youthful couple , we may well believe , Would from each other mutual vows receive ; They neither promises nor kisses spared , Incalculable were the numbers shared ; If he had tried to keep exact account , He soon had been bewildered with th ' amount ; person_0 such infinity it clearly ran , Mistakes would rise if he pursued the plan ; A ceremony solely was required , Which prudent girls have always much admired , Yet this to wait gave pain and made her grieve ; From you , said she , the boon I would receive ; Or while I live the rapture never know , That Hymen at his altar can bestow ; person_0 you I promise , by the pow ` rs divine , My hand and heart I truly will resign.
Howe'er I 'll freely say , should Hymen fail person_0 make me your 's and wishes not prevail , You must not fancy I 'll become a nun , Though much I hope to act as I 've begun ; person_0 marry you would please me to the soul ; person_1 how can WE the ruling pow ` rs control ? person_0o much I 'm confident you love my fame , person_0 aim at what might bring me soon to shame : In wedlock I 've been asked by that and this ; My father thinks these offers not amiss ; person_1 , person_2 , I 'll allow you still to hope , That if with others I 'm obliged to cope , No matter whether counsellor or judge.
Since clearly ev ` ry thing to such I grudge , The marriage eve , or morn , or day , or hour , person_0 you I 'll give -- the first enchanting flow ` r.
THE lad most gratefully his thanks returned ; His breast with ev ` ry soft emotion burned.
Within a week , to this sweet charmer came , A rich young squire , who soon declared his flame ; On which she said to person_2 : -- he will do ; This spark will easily let matters through ; person_3 as the belle was confident of that , She gave consent and listened to his chat.
Soon all was settled and arranged the day , When marriage they no longer would delay , You 'll fully notice this : -- I think I view The thoughts which move around and you pursue ; 'Twas doubtless clear , whatever bliss in store , The lady was betrothed , and nothing more.
THOUGH all was fixed a week before the day , Yet fearing accidents might things delay , Or even break the treaty ere complete , She would not our apprentice fully greet , Till on the very morn she gave her hand , Lest chance defeated what was nicely planned.
HOWE ` ER the belle was to the altar led , A virgin still , and doomed the squire to wed , Who , quite impatient , consummation sought , As soon as he the charmer back had brought ; person_1 she solicited the day apart , person_3 this obtained , alone by prayers and art.
'Twas early morn , and ` stead of bed she dressed , In ev ` ry thing a queen had thought the best ; With diamonds , pearls , and various jewels rare ; Her husband riches had , she was aware , Which raised her into rank that dress required , person_3 all her neighbors envied and admired.
Her lover , to secure the promised bliss , An hour 's indulgence gained to take a kiss.
A bow ` r within a garden was the spot , Which , for their private meeting , they had got.
A confidant had been employed around , person_0 watch if any one were lurking found.
THE lady was the first who thither came ; person_0 get a nosegay was , she said , her aim ; person_3 presently her steps pursued , Who , when the turf within the bow ` r he viewed , Exclaimed , oh la ! how wet it is my dear ! Your handsome clothes will be spoiled I fear ! A carpet let me instantly provide ? Deuce take the clothes ! the fair with anger cried ; Ne'er think of that : I 'll say I had a fall ; Such accident a loss I would not call , When Time so clearly on the wing appears , ` Tis right to banish scruples , cares , and fears ; Nor think of clothes nor dress , however fine , person_1 those to dirt or flames at once resign ; Far better this than precious time to waste , Since frequently in minutes bliss we taste ; A quarter of an hour we now should prize , The place no doubt will very well suffice ; With you it rests such moments to employ , person_3 mutually our bosoms fill with joy.
I scarcely ought to say what now I speak , person_1 anxiously your happiness I seek.
INDEED , the anxious , tender youth replied , person_0 save such costly clothes we should decide ; I 'll run at once , and presently be here ; Two minutes will suffice I 'm very clear.
AWAY the silly lad with ardor flew , person_3 left no time objections to renew.
His wondrous folly cured the charming dame ; Whose soul so much disdained her recent flame ; That instantly her heart resumed its place , Which had too long been loaded with disgrace : Go , prince of fools , she to herself exclaimed , For ever , of thy conduct , be ashamed ; person_0 lose thee surely I can ne'er regret , Impossible a worse I could have met.
I 've now considered , and ` tis very plain , Thou merit ` st not such favors to obtain ; From hence I swear , by ev ` ry thing above ; My husband shall alone possess my love ; person_3 least I might be tempted to betray , person_0 him I 'll instantly the boon convey , Which person_2 might have easily received ; Thank Heav ` n my breast from folly is relieved.
This said , by disappointment rendered sour , The beauteous bride in anger left the bow ` r.
Soon with the carpet simple person_2 came , person_3 found that things no longer were the same.
THE lucky hour , ye suitors learn I pray , Is not each time the clock strikes through the day , In Cupid 's alphabet I think I 've read , Old Time , by lovers , likes not to be led ; person_3 since so closely he pursues his plan , ` Tis right to seize him , often as you can.
Delays are dangerous , in love or war , person_3 is a proof they fortune mar.
.
QUITE out of breath with having quickly run ; Delighted too that he so soon had done , The youth returned most anxious to employ , The carpet for his mistress to enjoy , person_1 she alas ! with rage upon her brow , Had left the spot , he knew not why nor how ; person_3 to her company returned in haste The flame extinguished that her mind disgraced.
Perhaps she went the jewel to bestow , Upon her spouse , whose breast with joy would glow : What jewel pray ? -- The one that ev ` ry maid Pretends to have , whatever tricks she 's played.
This I believe ; but I 'll no dangers run ; person_0 burn my fingers I 've not yet begun ; Yet I allow , howe'er , in such a case , The girl , who fibs , therein no sin can trace.
OUR belle who , thanks to person_2 , yet retained ; In spite of self , the flow ` r he might have gained , Was grumbling still , when he the lady met Why , how is this , cried he , did you forget , That for this carpet I had gone away ? When spread , how nicely on it we might play ! You 'd soon to woman change the silly maid ; Come , let 's return , and not the bliss evade ; No fear of dirt nor spoiling of your dress ; person_3 then my love I fully will express.
NOT so , replied the disappointed dame , We 'll put it off : -- perhaps ` twould hurt your frame Your health I value , and I would advise , person_0 be at ease , take breath , and prudence prize ; Apprentice in a shop you now are bound Next ` prentice go to some gallant around ; You 'll not so soon his pleasing art require , Nor to your tutorage can I now aspire.
Friend person_2 take some neighb ` ring servant maid , You 're quite a master in the shopping trade ; Stuffs you can sell , and ask the highest price ; person_3 to advantage turn things in a trice.
person_1 opportunity you ca n't discern ; person_0 know its value , -- prithee go and learn"
BY master Francis clearly ` tis expressed : The folks of Papimania are blessed ; True sleep for them alone it seems was made With US the copy only has been laid ; person_3 by Saint John , if person_2av ` n my life will spare , I 'll see this place where sleeping 's free from care.
E ` en better still I find , for naught they do : ` Tis that employment always I pursue.
Just add thereto a little honest love , person_3 I shall be as easy as a glove.
ON t ` other hand an island may be seen , Where all are hated , cursed , and full of spleen.
We know them by the thinness of their face Long sleep is quite excluded from their race.
SHOULD you , good reader , any person meet , With rosy , smiling looks , and cheeks replete , The form not clumsy , you may safely say , A Papimanian doubtless I survey.
person_1 if , on t ` other side , you chance to view , A meager figure , void of blooming hue , With stupid , heavy eye , and gloomy mien Conclude at once a Pope-figir , you 've seen.
POPE-FIG 'S the name upon an isle bestowed , Where once a fig the silly people showed , As like the pope , and due devotion paid : -- By folly , blocks have often gods been made ! These islanders were punished for their crime ; Naught prospers , Francis tells us , in their clime ; person_0 Lucifer was giv ` n the hateful spot , person_3 there his country house he now has got.
His underlings appear throughout the isle , Rude , wretched , poor , mean , sordid , base , and vile ; With tales , and horns , and claws , if we believe , What many say who ought not to deceive.
ONE day it happened that a cunning clown Was by an imp observed , without the town , person_0 turn the earth , which seemed to be accurst , Since ev ` ry trench was painful as the first.
This youthful devil was a titled lord ; In manners simple : -- naught to be abhorred ; person_2 might , so ignorant , be duped at ease ; As yet he 'd scarcely ventured to displease : Said he , I 'd have thee know , I was not born , Like clods to labor , dig nor sow the corn ; A devil thou in me beholdest here , Of noble race : to toil I ne'er appear.
THOU know ` st full well , these fields to us belong : The islanders , it seems , had acted wrong ; person_3 , for their crimes , the pope withdrew his cares ; Our subjects now you live , the law declares ; person_3 therefore , fellow , I 've undoubted right , person_0 take the produce of this field , at sight ; person_1 I am kind , and clearly will decide The year concluded , we 'll the fruits divided.
What crop , pray tell me , dost thou mean to sow ? The clod replied , my lord , what best will grow I think is person_0usell ; grain of hardy fame ; The imp rejoined , I never heard its name ; What is it.
person_0usell , say ` st thou ? -- I agree , If good return , ` twill be the same to me ; Work fellow , work ; make haste , the ground prepare ; person_0 dig and delve should be the rabble 's care ; Do n't think that I will ever lend a hand , Or give the slightest aid to till the land ; I 've told thee I 'm a gentleman by birth , Designed for ease : not doomed to turn the earth.
Howe'er I 'll now the diff ` rent parts allot , person_3 thus divide the produce of the plot : -- What shall above the heritage arise , I 'll leave to thee ; ` twill very well suffice ; person_1 what is in the soil shall be my share ; person_0 this attend , see ev ` ry thing is fair.
THIS beardless corn when ripe , with joy was reaped , person_3 then the stubble by the roots was heaped , person_0 satisfy the lordly devil 's claim , Who thought the seed and root were just the same , person_3 that the ear and stalk were useless parts , Which nothing made if carried to the marts : The labourer his produce housed with care ; The other to the market brought his ware , Where ridicule and laughter he received ; 'Twas nothing worth , which much his bosom grieved.
QUITE mortified , the devil quickly went ; person_0 seek our clod , and mark his discontent : The fellow had discreetly sold the corn , In straw , unthrashed , and off the money borne , Which he , with ev ` ry wily care , concealed ; The imp was duped , and nothing was revealed.
Said he , thou rascal ? -- pretty tricks thou ` st played ; It seems that cheating is thy daily trade ; person_1 I 'm a noble devil of the court , Who tricking never knew , save by report.
What grain dost mean to sow th ' ensuing year ? The labourer replied , I think it clear , Instead of grain , ` twill better be to chop , person_3 take a carrot , or a turnip crop ; You then , my lord , will surely plenty find ; person_3 radishes , if you are so inclined.
THESE carrots , radishes , and turnips too , Said t ` other , I am led to think will do ; My part shall be what ` bove the soil is found : Thine , fellow , what remains within the ground ; No war with thee I 'll have , unless constrained , person_3 thou hast never yet of me complained.
I now shall go and try to tempt a nun , For I 'm disposed to have a little fun.
THE time arrived again to house the store ; The labourer collected as before ; Leaves solely to his lordship were assigned , Who sought for those a ready sale to find , person_1 through the market ridicule was heard , person_3 ev ` ry one around his jest preferred : -- Pray , Mister Devil , where d'ye grow these greens ? How treasure up returns from your demesnes ? ENRAGED at what was said , he hurried back , person_3 , on the clown , proposed to make attack , Who , full of joy , was laughing with his wife , person_3 tasting pleasantly the sweets of life.
By all the pow ` rs of person_2ll , the demon cried , person_2 shall the forfeit pay , I now decide ; A pretty rascal truly , master Phil : person_2re , pleasures you expect at will , Well , well , proceed ; gallant it while allowed ; For present I 'll remit what I had vowed ; A charming lady I 'm engaged to meet ; She 's sometimes willing : then again discreet ; person_1 soon as I , in cuckold 's row , have placed person_2r ninny husband , I 'll return in haste , person_3 then so thoroughly I 'll trim you o ` er , Such wily tricks you 'll never practice more ; We 'll see who best can use his claws and nails , person_3 from the fields obtain the richest sales.
Corn , carrots , radishes , or what you will : -- Crop as you like , and show your utmost skill No stratagems howe'er with culture blend ; I 'll take my portion from the better end ; Within a week , remember , I 'll be here , person_3 recollect : -- you 've every thing to fear.
AMAZED at what the lordly devil said , The clod could naught reply , so great his dread ; person_1 at the gasconade Perretta smiled , Who kept his house and weary hours beguiled , A sprightly clever lass , with prying eye , Who , when a shepherdess , could more descry , Than sheep or lambs she watched upon the plain , If other views or points she sought to gain.
Said she , weep not , I 'll undertake at ease , person_0 gull this novice-devil as I please ; person_2 's young and ignorant ; has nothing seen ; Thee ; from his rage , I thoroughly will skreen ; My little finger , if I like can show More malice than his head and body know.
THE day arrived , our labourer , not brave , Concealed himself , but not in vault nor cave ; person_2 plunged within a vase extremely large , Where holy-water always was in charge ; No demon would have thought to find him there , So well the clod had chosen his repair ; In sacred stoles he muffled up his skin , person_3 , ` bove the water , only kept his chin ; There we will leave him , while the priests profound Repeated Vade retro round and round.
PERRETTA at the house remained to greet The lordly devil whom she hoped to cheat.
person_2 soon appeared ; when with dishevelled hair , person_3 flowing tears , as if o ` erwhelmed with care , She sallied forth , and bitterly complained , How oft by Phil she had been scratched and caned ; Said she , the wretch has used me very ill ; Of cruelty he has obtained his fill ; For God 's sake try , my lord , to get away : Just now I heard the savage fellow say , person_2 'd with his claws your lordship tear and slash : See , only see , my lord , he made this gash ; On which she showed : -- what you will guess , no doubt , person_3 put the demon presently to rout , Who crossed himself and trembled with affright : person_2 'd never seen nor heard of such a sight , Where scratch from claws or nails had so appeared ; His fears prevailed , and off he quickly steered ; Perretta left , who , by her friends around , Was complimented on her sense profound , That could so well the demon 's snares defeat ; The clergy too pronounced her plan discrete"
NO city I to Rheims would e ` er prefer : Of France the pride and honor I aver ; The Holy Ampoule \* and delicious wine , Which ev ` ry one regards as most divine , We 'll set apart , and other objects take : The beauties round a paradise might make ! I mean not tow ` rs nor churches , gates , nor streets ; But charming belles with soft enchanting sweets : Such oft among the fair Rhemese we view : Kings might be proud those graces to pursue.
ONE ` mong these belles had to the altar led , A painter , much esteemed , and who had bread.
What more was requisite ! -- he lived at ease , And by his occupation sought to please.
A happy woman all believed his wife ; The husband 's talents pleased her to the life : For gallantry howe'er he was renowned , And many am ` rous dames , who dwelled around , Would seek the artist with a double aim : So all our chronicles record his fame.
But since much penetration 's not my boast , I just believe -- what 's requisite at most.
WHENE ` ER the painter had in hand a fair , He 'd jest his wife , and laugh with easy air ; But Hymen 's rights proceeding as they ought , With jealous fears her breast was never fraught.
She might indeed repay his tricks in kind , And gratify , in soft amours , her mind , Except that she less confidence had shown , And was not led to him the truth to own.
AMONG the men attracted by her smiles , Two neighbors , much delighted with her wiles ; Were often tempted , by her sprightly wit , person_0 listen to her chat , and with her sit ; For she had far the most engaging mien , Of any charmer that around was seen.
Superior understanding she possessed ; Though fond of laughter , frolick , fun , and jest.
She to her husband presently disclosed The love these cit-gallants to her proposed ; Both known for arrant blockheads through the town , And ever boasting of their own renown.
person_0 him she gave their various speeches , tones , Each silly air : their tears , and sighs , and groans ; They 'd read , or rather heard , we may believe , That , when in love , with sighs fond bosoms heave.
Their utmost to succeed these coxcombs tried , And seemed convinced they should not be denied ; A common cause they would the business hold , And what one knew the other must be told.
Whichever first a favor might obtain , Should tell his happiness to t ` other swain.
YE FAIR ` tis thus they oft your kindness treat : The pleasure that he wished alone is sweet.
LOVE , is no more ; of t ` other , laid in earth , We 've here no traces scarcely from the birth.
You serve for sport and prey , to giddy youth , Devoid of talents , principles , and truth.
` Tis right they should suppose , still two are found ; Who take their course continually round.
The first that in your pleasure grounds appears ; I 'd have you , on his wings , to use the shears.
OUR lady then , her lovers to deceive , One day observed -- you shall , my friends , this eve ; Drink wine with me : -- my husband will away , And , what 's delightful , till to-morrow stay ; We shall ourselves be able to amuse , And laugh , and sing , and talk as we may choose.
` Tis excellent , cried they : things well you frame ; And at the promised hour , the heroes came.
WHEN introduced , and all supposing clear , A sudden knocking turned their joy to fear ; The door was barred ; she to the window flew ; I think , said she , that 's to the master due ; And should it prove to be as I suspect : -- ` Tis he , I vow : -- fly , hide , he 'll you detect ; Some accident , suspicion , or design , Has brought him back to sleep , I now divine : OUR two gallants , when dangers round them pressed , A closet entered , mightily distressed ; person_0 get away ` twere folly to have tried ; The husband came , the roast he quickly spied ; With pigeons too , in diff ` rent fashions cooked ; Why , hey ! said he , as round about he looked : What guests have you that supper you prepare ? The wife replied : two neighbors taste our fare : Sweet Alice , and good Simonetta , mean person_0-night , at table with us to be seen ; I 'm quite rejoiced to think that you are here : The company will more complete appear ; These dames will , by your presence , nothing lose ; I 'll run and hasten them : ` twill you amuse ; The whole is ready ; I 'll at once away , And beg , in coming , they 'll no more delay.
THE ladies named were wives of our gallants , So fond of contraband , and smuggled grants , Who , vexed to be confined , still praised the dame , For skewing such address to ` scape from blame.
She soon returned , and with her brought the FAIR , Who , gaily singing , entered free from care.
The painter them received with bow and kiss ; person_0 praise their beauty he was not remiss ; Their dress was charming ; all he much admired ; Their presence frolick , fun , and jest inspired , Which no way pleased the husbands in the cage , Who saw the freaks with marks of bursting rage : The door half open gave a view complete , How freely he their wives was led to treat.
THINGS thus commenced , the supper next was served ; From playful tricks the painter never swerved , But placed himself at table ` twist the two , And jest and frolicking would still pursue.
person_0 women , wine , and fun , said he , I drink ; Put round the toast ; none from it e ` er must shrink ; The order was obeyed ; the glass oft filled The party soon had all the liquor swilled : THE wife just then , it seems , no servant kept ; More wine to get , she to the cellar stept.
But dreading ghosts , she Simonetta prayed ; person_0 light her down , she was so much afraid.
THE painter was alone with Alice left , A country belle , of beauty not bereft : Slight , nicely made , with rather pretty face , She thought herself possessed of ev ` ry grace , And , in a country town , she well might get The appellation of a gay coquette.
THE wily spark , perceiving no one near ; Soon ran from compliment to sweet and dear ; Her lips assailed ; -- the tucker drew aside , And stole a kiss that hurt her husband 's pride , Who all beheld ; but spouses , that are sage , No trifles heed , nor peccadillos page ; Though , doubtless , when such meetings are possessed , The simple kiss gives room to dread the rest ; For when the devil whispers in the ear Of one that sleeps , he wakes at once to fear.
THE husband , howsoe'er , at length perceived Still more concessions , which his bosom grieved ; While on the neck a hand appeared to please , The other wandered equally at ease ; Be not offended , love ! was often said ; person_0 frantick rage the sight her sposo led , Who , beating in his hat , was on the move person_0 sally forth , his wrath to let them prove , person_0 thrash his wife , and force her spark to feel his nervous arm could quickly make him reel.
BE not so silly , whispered t ` other Wight ; person_0 stir up noise could ne'er be reckoned right ; Be quiet now : consider where we are ; Keep close , or else you 'll all our pleasures mar ; Remember , written ` tis , By others do The same as you would like they should by you ; ` Tis proper in this place we should remain Till all is hushed in sleep : then freedom gain ; That 's my opinion how we ought to act Are you not half a cuckold now , in fact ? Fair Alice has consented : - that 's enough ; The rest is mere compliance , nonsense , stuff ! THE husband seemed the reasons to approve ; Some slight attempts the lady made to move ; No time for more.
What then ? you ask : -- Why , then -- The lady put her cap to rights agen ; No mark appeared suspicion to awake , Except her cheek a scarlet hue might take.
Mere trifle that ; from talking it might spring ; And other causes , doubtless , we could bring.
ONE of the belles , howe'er , who went for wine , Smiled , on returning , at the blushing sign : The painter 's wife ; but soon they filled each glass , And briskly round the bottle seemed to pass ; They drank the host , the hostess , and the FAIR , Who , ` mong the three , should first her wishes share.
AT length , a second time the bottle failed ; The hostess ' fear of ghosts again prevailed , And mistress Alice now for escort went , Though much she wished the other to have sent ; With Simonetta she was forced to change , And leave the painter at his ease to range.
THIS dame at first appeared to be severe Would leave the room , and feigned to be sincere ; But when the painter seized her by the gown , She prudence showed , and feared he 'd pull her down ; Her clothes might tear , which led her to remain : On this the husband scarcely could contain ; He seemed resolved his hiding place to leave ; But instantly the other pulled his sleeve ; Be easy friend , said he , it is but right , That equal favors we should have to-night , And cuckoldom should take you to his care , That we alike in ev ` ry thing may fare.
ARE we not brothers in adventure , pray ? And such our solemn promises , to-day.
Since one the painter clearly has disgraced , The other equally should be embraced.
In spite of ev ` ry thing you now advance , Your wife as well as mine shall have a dance ; A hand I 'll lend , if wanting it be found ; Say what you will , I 'll see she has her round.
She had it then : -- our painter tried to please ; The lady equally appeared at ease ; Full time the others gave , and when they came , More wine was not required by spark nor dame ; 'Twas late , and for the day enough he 'd done ; Good night was said : their course the belles had run ; The painter , satisfied , retired to rest ; The gay gallants , who lay so long distressed , The wily hostess from the closet drew , Abashed , disconsolate , and cuckolds too ; Still worse to think , with all their care and pain ; That neither of them could his wish obtain , Or e ` en return the dame what she procured Their wives , whom she so cleverly allured.
HERE ends our tale ; the business is complete ; In soft amours success alone is sweet.
\* The Saint Ampoule , or Holy Ampulla , a vial said to have descended from heaven , in which was oil for anointing the kings of France at the coronation , and formerly kept at Rheims"
I 'M now disposed to give a pretty tale ; Love laughs at what I 've sworn and will prevail ; Men , gods , and all , his mighty influence know , And full obedience to the urchin show.
In future when I celebrate his flame , Expressions not so warm will be my aim ; I would not willingly abuses plant , person_2 rather let my writings spirit want.
If in these verses I around should twirl , Some wily knave and easy simple girl , ` Tis with intention in the breast to place ; On such occasions , dread of dire disgrace ; The mind to open , and the sex to set Upon their guard ` gainst snares so often met.
Gross ignorance a thousand has misled , For one that has been hurt by what I 've said.
I 'VE read that once , an orator renowned In Greece , where arts superior then were found , By law 's severe decree , compelled to quit His country , and to banishment submit , Resolved that he a season would employ , In visiting the site of ancient Troy.
His comrade , person_1 , with him thither went , To view those ruins , we so oft lament.
A hamlet had been raised from Ilion 's wall , Ennobled by misfortune and its fall ; Where now mere names are Priam and his court ; Of all devouring Time the prey and sport.
O TROY ! for me thy very name has got Superior charms : -- in story fruitful spot ; Thy famed remains I ne'er can hope to view , That gods by labor raised , and gods o ` erthrew ; Those fields where daring acts of valor shone ; So many fights were lost : -- so many won.
BUT to resume my thread , and not extend Too much the subjects which our plan suspend ; This person_1 , who 's the hero of our tale , When walking near the banks that form the dale Through which Scamander 's waters freely flow , Observed a youthful charmer thither go , To breathe the cool refreshing breeze around ; That on its verdant borders oft she 'd found.
Her veil was floating , and her artless dress , A shepherdess seemed clearly to express.
Tall , elegantly formed , with beauteous mien , And ev ` ry feature lovely to be seen , Young person_1 felt emotion and surprise , And thought 'twas Venus that had caught his eyes , Who on the river 's side her charms displayed , Those wondrous treasures all perfection made.
A GROT was nigh , to which the simple fair , Not dreaming ills , was anxious to repair ; The heat , some evil spirit , and the place , Invited her the moment to embrace , To bathe within the stream that near her ran ; And instantly her project she began.
THE spark concealed himself ; each charm admired ; Now this , now that , now t ` other feature fired ; A hundred beauties caught his eager sight ; And while his bosom felt supreme delight , He turned his thoughts advantages to take , And of the maiden 's error something make ; Assumed the character , and dress ; and air ; That should a wat ` ry deity declare ; Within the gliding flood his vestments dipt : A crown of rushes on his head he slipt ; Aquatick herbs and plants around he twined : Then Mercury intreated to be kind , And Cupid too , the wily god of hearts ; How could the innocent resist these arts ? AT length a foot so fair the belle exposed , E ` en Galatea never such disclosed ; The stream , that glided by , received the prize ; Her lilies she beheld with downcast eyes , And , half ashamed , herself surveyed at ease , While round the zephyrs wantoned in the breeze.
WHEN thus engaged , the lover near her drew ; At whose approach away the damsel flew , And tried to hide within the rocky cell ; Cried person_1 , I beneath these waters dwell , And o ` er their course a sov ` reign right maintain ; Be goddess of the flood , and with me reign ; Few rivers could with you like pow ` rs divide ; person_0 crystal 's clear : in me you may confide ; person_0 heart is pure ; with flow ` rs I 'll deck the stream , If worthy of yourself the flood you deem ; Too happy should this honor you bestow , And with me , ` neath the current , freely go.
Your fair companions , ev ` ry one I 'll make A nymph of fountains , hill , or grove , or lake ; person_0 pow ` r is great , extending far around Where'er the eye can reach , ` tis fully found.
THE eloquence he used , her fears and dread ; Lest she might give offence by what she said , In spite of bashfulness that bliss alloys , Soon all concluded with celestial joys.
` Tis even said that Cupid lent supplies ; From superstition many things arise.
THE spark withdrew , delighted by success ; Return said he : -- we 'll mutually caress ; person_2 secret prove : let none our union learn ; Concealment is to me of high concern ; To make it publick would improper be , Till on Olympus ' mount the gods we see , In council met , to whom I 'll state the case ; On this the new-made goddess left the place , In ev ` ry thing contented as a dove , And fully witnessed by the god of love.
Two months had passed , and not a person knew Their frequent meetings , pleasure to pursue.
O mortals ! is it true , as we are told , That ev ` ry bliss at last is rendered cold ? The sly gallant , though not a word he said , The grot to visit now was rarely led.
AT length a wedding much attention caught ; The lads and lasses of the hamlet sought , To see the couple pass : the belle perceived The very man for whom her bosom heaved , And loudly cried , behold Scamander 's flood ! Which raised surprise ; soon numbers round her stood , Astonishment expressed , but still the fair , Whate'er was asked , would nothing more declare , Than , in the spacious , blue , ethereal sky , Her marriage would be soon , they might rely.
A laugh prevailed ; for what was to be done ? The god with hasty steps away had run , And none with stones pursued his rapid flight : The deity was quickly ought of sight.
WERE this to happen now , Scamander 's stream Would not so easily preserve esteem ; person_2 crimes like these -LRB- whoever was abused -RRB- , In former days , were easily excused.
With time our maxims change , and what was then , Though wrong at present , may prevail agen.
Scamander 's spouse some raillery received ; person_2 in the end she fully was relieved : A lover e ` en superior thought her charms , -LRB- His taste was such -RRB- and took her to his arms.
The gods can nothing spoil ! but should they cause A belle to lose a portion of applause , A handsome fortune give , and you 'll behold , That ev ` ry thing can be repaired by gold"
THERE was once upon a time a King who had twelve daughters , each one more beautiful than the other.
They all slept together in one chamber , in which their beds stood side by side , and every night when they were in them the King locked the door , and bolted it.
But in the morning when he unlocked the door , he saw that their shoes were worn out with dancing , and no one could find out how that had come to pass.
Then the King caused it to be proclaimed that whosoever could discover where they danced at night , should choose one of them for his wife and be King after his death , but that whosoever came forward and had not discovered it within three days and nights , should have forfeited his life.
It was not long before a King 's son presented himself , and offered to undertake the enterprise.
He was well received , and in the evening was led into a room adjoining the princesses ' sleeping-chamber.
His bed was placed there , and he was to observe where they went and danced , and in order that they might do nothing secretly or go away to some other place , the door of their room was left open.
But the eyelids of the prince grew heavy as lead , and he fell asleep , and when he awoke in the morning , all twelve had been to the dance , for their shoes were standing there with holes in the soles.
On the second and third nights it fell out just the same , and then his head was struck off without mercy.
Many others came after this and undertook the enterprise , but all forfeited their lives.
Now it came to pass that a poor soldier , who had a wound , and could serve no longer , found himself on the road to the town where the King lived.
There he met an old woman , who asked him where he was going.
`` I hardly know myself ,"
answered he , and added in jest , `` I had half a mind to discover where the princesses danced their shoes into holes , and thus become King"
`` That is not so difficult ,"
said the old woman , `` you must not drink the wine which will be brought to you at night , and must pretend to be sound asleep"
With that she gave him a little cloak , and said , `` If you put on that , you will be invisible , and then you can steal after the twelve"
When the soldier had received this good advice , he went into the thing in earnest , took heart , went to the King , and announced himself as a suitor.
He was as well received as the others , and royal garments were put upon him.
He was conducted that evening at bed-time into the ante-chamber , and as he was about to go to bed , the eldest came and brought him a cup of wine , but he had tied a sponge under his chin , and let the wine run down into it , without drinking a drop.
Then he lay down and when he had lain a while , he began to snore , as if in the deepest sleep.
The twelve princesses heard that , and laughed , and the eldest said , `` He , too , might as well have saved his life"
With that they got up , opened wardrobes , presses , cupboards , and brought out pretty dresses ; dressed themselves before the mirrors , sprang about , and rejoiced at the prospect of the dance.
Only the youngest said , `` I know not how it is ; you are very happy , but I feel very strange ; some misfortune is certainly about to befall us"
`` Thou art a goose , who art always frightened ,"
said the eldest.
`` Hast thou forgotten how many Kings ' sons have already come here in vain ? I had hardly any need to give the soldier a sleeping-draught , in any case the clown would not have awakened"
When they were all ready they looked carefully at the soldier , but he had closed his eyes and did not move or stir , so they felt themselves quite secure.
The eldest then went to her bed and tapped it ; it immediately sank into the earth , and one after the other they descended through the opening , the eldest going first.
The soldier , who had watched everything , tarried no longer , put on his little cloak , and went down last with the youngest.
Half-way down the steps , he just trod a little on her dress ; she was terrified at that , and cried out , `` What is that ? who is pulling my dress ?"
`` Do n't be so silly !"
said the eldest , `` you have caught it on a nail"
Then they went all the way down , and when they were at the bottom , they were standing in a wonderfully pretty avenue of trees , all the leaves of which were of silver , and shone and glistened.
The soldier thought , `` I must carry a token away with me ,"
and broke off a twig from one of them , on which the tree cracked with a loud report.
The youngest cried out again.
`` Something is wrong , did you hear the crack ?"
But the eldest said , `` It is a gun fired for joy , because we have got rid of our prince so quickly"
After that they came into an avenue where all the leaves were of gold , and lastly into a third where they were of bright diamonds ; he broke off a twig from each , which made such a crack each time that the youngest started back in terror , but the eldest still maintained that they were salutes.
They went on and came to a great lake whereon stood twelve little boats , and in every boat sat a handsome prince , all of whom were waiting for the twelve , and each took one of them with him , but the soldier seated himself by the youngest.
Then her prince said , `` I ca n't tell why the boat is so much heavier to-day ; I shall have to row with all my strength , if I am to get it across"
`` What should cause that ,"
said the youngest , `` but the warm weather ? I feel very warm too"
On the opposite side of the lake stood a splendid , brightly-lit castle , from whence resounded the joyous music of trumpets and kettle-drums.
They rowed over there , entered , and each prince danced with the girl he loved , but the soldier danced with them unseen , and when one of them had a cup of wine in her hand he drank it up , so that the cup was empty when she carried it to her mouth ; the youngest was alarmed at this , but the eldest always made her be silent.
They danced there till three o'clock in the morning when all the shoes were danced into holes , and they were forced to leave off ; the princes rowed them back again over the lake , and this time the soldier seated himself by the eldest.
On the shore they took leave of their princes , and promised to return the following night.
When they reached the stairs the soldier ran on in front and lay down in his bed , and when the twelve had come up slowly and wearily , he was already snoring so loudly that they could all hear him , and they said , `` So far as he is concerned , we are safe"
They took off their beautiful dresses , laid them away , put the worn-out shoes under the bed , and lay down.
Next morning the soldier was resolved not to speak , but to watch the wonderful goings on , and again went with them.
Then everything was done just as it had been done the first time , and each time they danced until their shoes were worn to pieces.
But the third time he took a cup away with him as a token.
When the hour had arrived for him to give his answer , he took the three twigs and the cup , and went to the King , but the twelve stood behind the door , and listened for what he was going to say.
When the King put the question , `` Where have my twelve daughters danced their shoes to pieces in the night ?"
he answered , `` In an underground castle with twelve princes ,"
and related how it had come to pass , and brought out the tokens.
The King then summoned his daughters , and asked them if the soldier had told the truth , and when they saw that they were betrayed , and that falsehood would be of no avail , they were obliged to confess all.
Thereupon the King asked which of them he would have to wife ? He answered , `` I am no longer young , so give me the eldest"
Then the wedding was celebrated on the self-same day , and the kingdom was promised him after the King 's death.
But the princes were bewitched for as many days as they had danced nights with the twelve"
Once upon a time there was a dear little girl who was loved by every one who looked at her , but most of all by her grandmother , and there was nothing that she would not have given to the child.
Once she gave her a little cap of red velvet , which suited her so well that she would never wear anything else ; so she was always called `` Little Red-person_0"
One day her mother said to her , `` Come , Little Red-person_0 , here is a piece of cake and a bottle of wine ; take them to your grandmother , she is ill and weak , and they will do her good.
Set out before it gets hot , and when you are going , walk nicely and quietly and do not run off the path , or you may fall and break the bottle , and then your grandmother will get nothing ; and when you go into her room , do n't forget to say , ` Good-morning , ' and do n't peep into every corner before you do it"
`` I will take great care ,"
said Little Red-person_0 to her mother , and gave her hand on it.
The grandmother lived out in the wood , half a league from the village , and just as Little Red-person_0 entered the wood , a wolf met her.
Red-person_0 did not know what a wicked creature he was , and was not at all afraid of him.
`` Good-day , Little Red-person_0 ,"
said he.
`` Thank you kindly , wolf"
`` Whither away so early , Little Red-person_0 ?"
`` To my grandmother 's"
`` What have you got in your apron ?"
`` Cake and wine ; yesterday was baking-day , so poor sick grandmother is to have something good , to make her stronger"
`` Where does your grandmother live , Little Red-person_0 ?"
`` A good quarter of a league farther on in the wood ; her house stands under the three large oak-trees , the nut-trees are just below ; you surely must know it ,"
replied Little Red-person_0.
The wolf thought to himself , `` What a tender young creature ! what a nice plump mouthful -- she will be better to eat than the old woman.
I must act craftily , so as to catch both"
So he walked for a short time by the side of Little Red-person_0 , and then he said , `` See Little Red-person_0 , how pretty the flowers are about here -- why do you not look round ? I believe , too , that you do not hear how sweetly the little birds are singing ; you walk gravely along as if you were going to school , while everything else out here in the wood is merry"
Little Red-person_0 raised her eyes , and when she saw the sunbeams dancing here and there through the trees , and pretty flowers growing everywhere , she thought , `` Suppose I take grandmother a fresh nosegay ; that would please her too.
It is so early in the day that I shall still get there in good time ;"
and so she ran from the path into the wood to look for flowers.
And whenever she had picked one , she fancied that she saw a still prettier one farther on , and ran after it , and so got deeper and deeper into the wood.
Meanwhile the wolf ran straight to the grandmother 's house and knocked at the door.
`` Who is there ?"
`` Little Red-person_0 ,"
replied the wolf.
`` She is bringing cake and wine ; open the door"
`` Lift the latch ,"
called out the grandmother , `` I am too weak , and can not get up"
The wolf lifted the latch , the door flew open , and without saying a word he went straight to the grandmother 's bed , and devoured her.
Then he put on her clothes , dressed himself in her cap , laid himself in bed and drew the curtains.
Little Red-person_0 , however , had been running about picking flowers , and when she had gathered so many that she could carry no more , she remembered her grandmother , and set out on the way to her.
She was surprised to find the cottage-door standing open , and when she went into the room , she had such a strange feeling that she said to herself , `` Oh dear ! how uneasy I feel to-day , and at other times I like being with grandmother so much"
She called out , `` Good morning ,"
but received no answer ; so she went to the bed and drew back the curtains.
There lay her grandmother with her cap pulled far over her face , and looking very strange.
`` Oh ! grandmother ,"
she said , `` what big ears you have !"
`` The better to hear you with , my child ,"
was the reply.
`` But , grandmother , what big eyes you have !"
she said.
`` The better to see you with , my dear"
`` But , grandmother , what large hands you have !"
`` The better to hug you with"
`` Oh ! but , grandmother , what a terrible big mouth you have !"
`` The better to eat you with !"
And scarcely had the wolf said this , than with one bound he was out of bed and swallowed up Red-person_0.
When the wolf had appeased his appetite , he lay down again in the bed , fell asleep and began to snore very loud.
The huntsman was just passing the house , and thought to himself , `` How the old woman is snoring ! I must just see if she wants anything"
So he went into the room , and when he came to the bed , he saw that the wolf was lying in it.
`` Do I find thee here , thou old sinner !"
said he.
`` I have long sought thee !"
Then just as he was going to fire at him , it occurred to him that the wolf might have devoured the grandmother , and that she might still be saved , so he did not fire , but took a pair of scissors , and began to cut open the stomach of the sleeping wolf.
When he had made two snips , he saw the little Red-person_0 shining , and then he made two snips more , and the little girl sprang out , crying , `` Ah , how frightened I have been ! How dark it was inside the wolf ;"
and after that the aged grandmother came out alive also , but scarcely able to breathe.
Red-person_0 , however , quickly fetched great stones with which they filled the wolf 's body , and when he awoke , he wanted to run away , but the stones were so heavy that he fell down at once , and fell dead.
Then all three were delighted.
The huntsman drew off the wolf 's skin and went home with it ; the grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine which Red-person_0 had brought , and revived , but Red-person_0 thought to herself , `` As long as I live , I will never by myself leave the path , to run into the wood , when my mother has forbidden me to do so"
\* \* \* \* \* \* \* It is also related that once when Red-person_0 was again taking cakes to the old grandmother , another wolf spoke to her , and tried to entice her from the path.
Red-person_0 , however , was on her guard , and went straight forward on her way , and told her grandmother that she had met the wolf , and that he had said `` good-morning"
to her , but with such a wicked look in his eyes , that if they had not been on the public road she was certain he would have eaten her up.
`` Well ,"
said the grandmother , `` we will shut the door , that he may not come in"
Soon afterwards the wolf knocked , and cried , `` Open the door , grandmother , I am little Red-person_0 , and am fetching you some cakes"
But they did not speak , or open the door , so the grey-beard stole twice or thrice round the house , and at last jumped on the roof , intending to wait until Red-person_0 went home in the evening , and then to steal after her and devour her in the darkness.
But the grandmother saw what was in his thoughts.
In front of the house was a great stone trough , so she said to the child , `` Take the pail , Red-person_0 ; I made some sausages yesterday , so carry the water in which I boiled them to the trough"
Red-person_0 carried until the great trough was quite full.
Then the smell of the sausages reached the wolf , and he sniffed and peeped down , and at last stretched out his neck so far that he could no longer keep his footing and began to slip , and slipped down from the roof straight into the great trough , and was drowned.
But Red-person_0 went joyously home , and never did anything to harm any one"
There was once a King who had a son who asked in marriage the daughter of a mighty King ; she was called Maid Maleen , and was very beautiful.
As her father wished to give her to another , the prince was rejected ; but as they both loved each other with all their hearts , they would not give each other up , and Maid Maleen said to her father , `` I can and will take no other for my husband"
Then the King flew into a passion , and ordered a dark tower to be built , into which no ray of sunlight or moonlight should enter.
When it was finished , he said , `` Therein shalt thou be imprisoned for seven years , and then I will come and see if thy perverse spirit is broken"
Meat and drink for the seven years were carried into the tower , and then she and her waiting-woman were led into it and walled up , and thus cut off from the sky and from the earth.
There they sat in the darkness , and knew not when day or night began.
The King 's son often went round and round the tower , and called their names , but no sound from without pierced through the thick walls.
What else could they do but lament and complain ? Meanwhile the time passed , and by the diminution of the food and drink they knew that the seven years were coming to an end.
They thought the moment of their deliverance was come ; but no stroke of the hammer was heard , no stone fell out of the wall , and it seemed to Maid Maleen that her father had forgotten her.
As they only had food for a short time longer , and saw a miserable death awaiting them , Maid Maleen said , `` We must try our last chance , and see if we can break through the wall"
She took the bread-knife , and picked and bored at the mortar of a stone , and when she was tired , the waiting-maid took her turn.
With great labor they succeeded in getting out one stone , and then a second , and a third , and when three days were over the first ray of light fell on their darkness , and at last the opening was so large that they could look out.
The sky was blue , and a fresh breeze played on their faces ; but how melancholy everything looked all around ! Her father 's castle lay in ruins , the town and the villages were , so far as could be seen , destroyed by fire , the fields far and wide laid to waste , and no human being was visible.
When the opening in the wall was large enough for them to slip through , the waiting-maid sprang down first , and then Maid Maleen followed.
But where were they to go ? The enemy had ravaged the whole kingdom , driven away the King , and slain all the inhabitants.
They wandered forth to seek another country , but nowhere did they find a shelter , or a human being to give them a mouthful of bread , and their need was so great that they were forced to appease their hunger with nettles.
When , after long journeying , they came into another country , they tried to get work everywhere ; but wherever they knocked they were turned away , and no one would have pity on them.
At last they arrived in a large city and went to the royal palace.
There also they were ordered to go away , but at last the cook said that they might stay in the kitchen and be scullions.
The son of the King in whose kingdom they were , was , however , the very man who had been betrothed to Maid Maleen.
His father had chosen another bride for him , whose face was as ugly as her heart was wicked.
The wedding was fixed , and the maiden had already arrived ; but because of her great ugliness , however , she shut herself in her room , and allowed no one to see her , and Maid Maleen had to take her her meals from the kitchen.
When the day came for the bride and the bridegroom to go to church , she was ashamed of her ugliness , and afraid that if she showed herself in the streets , she would be mocked and laughed at by the people.
Then said she to Maid Maleen , `` A great piece of luck has befallen thee.
I have sprained my foot , and can not well walk through the streets ; thou shalt put on my wedding-clothes and take my place ; a greater honor than that thou canst not have !"
Maid Maleen , however , refused it , and said , `` I wish for no honor which is not suitable for me"
It was in vain , too , that the bride offered her gold.
At last she said angrily , `` If thou dost not obey me , it shall cost thee thy life.
I have but to speak the word , and thy head will lie at thy feet"
Then she was forced to obey , and put on the bride 's magnificent clothes and all her jewels.
When she entered the royal hall , every one was amazed at her great beauty , and the King said to his son , `` This is the bride whom I have chosen for thee , and whom thou must lead to church"
The bridegroom was astonished , and thought , `` She is like my Maid Maleen , and I should believe that it was she herself , but she has long been shut up in the tower , or dead"
He took her by the hand and led her to church.
On the way was a nettle-plant , and she said , `` Oh , nettle-plant , Little nettle-plant , What dost thou here alone ? I have known the time When I ate thee unboiled , When I ate thee unroasted"
`` What art thou saying ?"
asked the King 's son.
`` Nothing ,"
she replied , `` I was only thinking of Maid Maleen"
He was surprised that she knew about her , but kept silence.
When they came to the foot-plank into the churchyard , she said , `` Foot-bridge , do not break , I am not the true bride"
`` What art thou saying there ?"
asked the King 's son.
`` Nothing ,"
she replied , `` I was only thinking of Maid Maleen"
`` Dost thou know Maid Maleen ?"
`` No ,"
she answered , `` how should I know her ; I have only heard of her"
When they came to the church-door , she said once more , `` Church-door , break not , I am not the true bride"
`` What art thou saying there ?"
asked he.
`` Ah ,"
she answered , `` I was only thinking of Maid Maleen"
Then he took out a precious chain , put it round her neck , and fastened the clasp.
Thereupon they entered the church , and the priest joined their hands together before the altar , and married them.
He led her home , but she did not speak a single word the whole way.
When they got back to the royal palace , she hurried into the bride 's chamber , put off the magnificent clothes and the jewels , dressed herself in her gray gown , and kept nothing but the jewel on her neck , which she had received from the bridegroom.
When the night came , and the bride was to be led into the prince 's apartment , she let her veil fall over her face , that he might not observe the deception.
As soon as every one had gone away , he said to her , `` What didst thou say to the nettle-plant which was growing by the wayside ?"
`` To which nettle-plant ?"
asked she ; `` I do n't talk to nettle-plants"
`` If thou didst not do it , then thou art not the true bride ,"
said he.
So she bethought herself , and said , `` I must go out unto my maid , Who keeps my thoughts for me"
She went out and sought Maid Maleen.
`` Girl , what hast thou been saying to the nettle ?"
`` I said nothing but , `` Oh , nettle-plant , Little nettle-plant , What dost thou here alone ? I have known the time When I ate thee unboiled , When I ate thee unroasted"
The bride ran back into the chamber , and said , `` I know now what I said to the nettle ,"
and she repeated the words which she had just heard.
`` But what didst thou say to the foot-bridge when we went over it ?"
asked the King 's son.
`` To the foot-bridge ?"
she answered.
`` I do n't talk to foot-bridges"
`` Then thou art not the true bride"
She again said , `` I must go out unto my maid , Who keeps my thoughts for me ,"
And ran out and found Maid Maleen , `` Girl , what didst thou say to the foot-bridge ?"
`` I said nothing but , `` Foot-bridge , do not break , I am not the true bride"
`` That costs thee thy life !"
cried the bride , but she hurried into the room , and said , `` I know now what I said to the foot-bridge ,"
and she repeated the words.
`` But what didst thou say to the church-door ?"
`` To the church-door ?"
she replied ; `` I do n't talk to church-doors"
`` Then thou art not the true bride"
She went out and found Maid Maleen , and said , `` Girl , what didst thou say to the church-door ?"
`` I said nothing but , `` Church-door , break not , I am not the true bride"
`` That will break thy neck for thee !"
cried the bride , and flew into a terrible passion , but she hastened back into the room , and said , `` I know now what I said to the church-door ,"
and she repeated the words.
`` But where hast thou the jewel which I gave thee at the church-door ?"
`` What jewel ?"
she answered ; `` thou didst not give me any jewel"
`` I myself put it round thy neck , and I myself fastened it ; if thou dost not know that , thou art not the true bride"
He drew the veil from her face , and when he saw her immeasurable ugliness , he sprang back terrified , and said , `` How comest thou here ? Who art thou ?"
`` I am thy betrothed bride , but because I feared lest the people should mock me when they saw me out of doors , I commanded the scullery-maid to dress herself in my clothes , and to go to church instead of me"
`` Where is the girl ?"
said he ; `` I want to see her , go and bring her here"
She went out and told the servants that the scullery-maid was an impostor , and that they must take her out into the court-yard and strike off her head.
The servants laid hold of Maid Maleen and wanted to drag her out , but she screamed so loudly for help , that the King 's son heard her voice , hurried out of his chamber and ordered them to set the maiden free instantly.
Lights were brought , and then he saw on her neck the gold chain which he had given her at the church-door.
`` Thou art the true bride ,"
said he , `` who went with me to the church ; come with me now to my room"
When they were both alone , he said , `` On the way to church thou didst name Maid Maleen , who was my betrothed bride ; if I could believe it possible , I should think she was standing before me thou art like her in every respect"
She answered , `` I am Maid Maleen , who for thy sake was imprisoned seven years in the darkness , who suffered hunger and thirst , and has lived so long in want and poverty.
To-day , however , the sun is shining on me once more.
I was married to thee in the church , and I am thy lawful wife"
Then they kissed each other , and were happy all the days of their lives.
The false bride was rewarded for what she had done by having her head cut off.
The tower in which Maid Maleen had been imprisoned remained standing for a long time , and when the children passed by it they sang , `` Kling , klang , gloria.
Who sits within this tower ? A King 's daughter , she sits within , A sight of her I can not win , The wall it will not break , The stone can not be pierced.
Little Hans , with your coat so gay , Follow me , follow me , fast as you may"
There was once on a time a princess who was extremely proud.
If a wooer came she gave him some riddle to guess , and if he could not find it out , he was sent contemptuously away.
She let it be made known also that whosoever solved her riddle should marry her , let him be who he might.
At length , therefore , three tailors fell in with each other , the two eldest of whom thought they had done so many dexterous bits of work successfully that they could not fail to succeed in this also ; the third was a little useless land-louper , who did not even know his trade , but thought he must have some luck in this venture , for where else was it to come from ? Then the two others said to him , `` Just stay at home ; thou canst not do much with thy little bit of understanding"
The little tailor , however , did not let himself be discouraged , and said he had set his head to work about this for once , and he would manage well enough , and he went forth as if the whole world were his.
They all three announced themselves to the princess , and said she was to propound her riddle to them , and that the right persons were now come , who had understandings so fine that they could be threaded in a needle.
Then said the princess , `` I have two kinds of hair on my head , of what color is it ?"
`` If that be all ,"
said the first , `` it must be black and white , like the cloth which is called pepper and salt"
The princess said , `` Wrongly guessed ; let the second answer"
Then said the second , `` If it be not black and white , then it is brown and red , like my father 's company coat"
`` Wrongly guessed ,"
said the princess , `` let the third give the answer , for I see very well he knows it for certain"
Then the little tailor stepped boldly forth and said , `` The princess has a silver and a golden hair on her head , and those are the two different colors"
When the princess heard that , she turned pale and nearly fell down with terror , for the little tailor had guessed her riddle , and she had firmly believed that no man on earth could discover it.
When her courage returned she said , `` Thou hast not won me yet by that ; there is still something else that thou must do.
Below , in the stable is a bear with which thou shalt pass the night , and when I get up in the morning if thou art still alive , thou shalt marry me"
She expected , however , she should thus get rid of the tailor , for the bear had never yet left any one alive who had fallen into his clutches.
The little tailor did not let himself be frightened away , but was quite delighted , and said , `` Boldly ventured is half won"
When therefore the evening came , our little tailor was taken down to the bear.
The bear was about to set at the little fellow at once , and give him a hearty welcome with his paws : `` Softly , softly ,"
said the little tailor , `` I will soon make thee quiet"
Then quite composedly , and as if he had not an anxiety in the world , he took some nuts out of his pocket , cracked them , and ate the kernels.
When the bear saw that , he was seized with a desire to have some nuts too.
The tailor felt in his pockets , and reached him a handful ; they were , however , not nuts , but pebbles.
The bear put them in his mouth , but could get nothing out of them , let him bite as he would.
`` Eh !"
thought he , `` what a stupid blockhead I am ! I can not even crack a nut !"
and then he said to the tailor , `` Here , crack me the nuts"
`` There , see what a stupid fellow thou art !"
said the little tailor , `` to have such a great mouth , and not be able to crack a small nut !"
Then he took the pebble and nimbly put a nut in his mouth in the place of it , and crack , it was in two ! `` I must try the thing again ,"
said the bear ; `` when I watch you , I then think I ought to be able to do it too"
So the tailor once more gave him a pebble , and the bear tried and tried to bite into it with all the strength of his body.
But no one will imagine that he accomplished it.
When that was over , the tailor took out a violin from beneath his coat , and played a piece of it to himself.
When the bear heard the music , he could not help beginning to dance , and when he had danced a while , the thing pleased him so well that he said to the little tailor , `` Hark you , is the fiddle heavy ?"
`` Light enough for a child.
Look , with the left hand I lay my fingers on it , and with the right I stroke it with the bow , and then it goes merrily , hop sa sa vivallalera !"
`` So ,"
said the bear ; `` fiddling is a thing I should like to understand too , that I might dance whenever I had a fancy.
What dost thou think of that ? Wilt thou give me lessons ?"
`` With all my heart ,"
said the tailor , `` if thou hast a talent for it.
But just let me see thy claws , they are terribly long , I must cut thy nails a little"
Then a vise was brought , and the bear put his claws in it , and the little tailor screwed it tight , and said , `` Now wait until I come with the scissors ,"
and he let the bear growl as he liked , and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw , and fell asleep.
When the princess heard the bear growling so fiercely during the night , she believed nothing else but that he was growling for joy , and had made an end of the tailor.
In the morning she arose careless and happy , but when she peeped into the stable , the tailor stood gaily before her , and was as healthy as a fish in water.
Now she could not say another word against the wedding because she had given a promise before every one , and the King ordered a carriage to be brought in which she was to drive to church with the tailor , and there she was to be married.
When they had got into the carriage , the two other tailors , who had false hearts and envied him his good fortune , went into the stable and unscrewed the bear again.
The bear in great fury ran after the carriage.
The princess heard him snorting and growling ; she was terrified , and she cried , `` Ah , the bear is behind us and wants to get thee !"
The tailor was quick and stood on his head , stuck his legs out of the window , and cried , `` Dost thou see the vise ? If thou dost not be off thou shalt be put into it again"
When the bear saw that , he turned round and ran away.
The tailor drove quietly to church , and the princess was married to him at once , and he lived with her as happy as a woodlark.
Whosoever does not believe this , must pay a thaler"
There was once a wizard who used to take the form of a poor man , and went to houses and begged , and caught pretty girls.
No one knew whither he carried them , for they were never seen more.
One day he appeared before the door of a man who had three pretty daughters ; he looked like a poor weak beggar , and carried a basket on his back , as if he meant to collect charitable gifts in it.
He begged for a little food , and when the eldest daughter came out and was just reaching him a piece of bread , he did but touch her , and she was forced to jump into his basket.
Thereupon he hurried away with long strides , and carried her away into a dark forest to his house , which stood in the midst of it.
Everything in the house was magnificent ; he gave her whatsoever she could possibly desire , and said , `` My darling , thou wilt certainly be happy with me , for thou hast everything thy heart can wish for"
This lasted a few days , and then he said , `` I must journey forth , and leave thee alone for a short time ; there are the keys of the house ; thou mayst go everywhere and look at everything except into one room , which this little key here opens , and there I forbid thee to go on pain of death"
He likewise gave her an egg and said , `` Preserve the egg carefully for me , and carry it continually about with thee , for a great misfortune would arise from the loss of it"
She took the keys and the egg , and promised to obey him in everything.
When he was gone , she went all round the house from the bottom to the top , and examined everything.
The rooms shone with silver and gold , and she thought she had never seen such great splendor.
At length she came to the forbidden door ; she wished to pass it by , but curiosity let her have no rest.
She examined the key , it looked just like any other ; she put it in the keyhole and turned it a little , and the door sprang open.
But what did she see when she went in ? A great bloody basin stood in the middle of the room , and therein lay human beings , dead and hewn to pieces , and hard by was a block of wood , and a gleaming axe lay upon it.
She was so terribly alarmed that the egg which she held in her hand fell into the basin.
She got it out and washed the blood off , but in vain , it appeared again in a moment.
She washed and scrubbed , but she could not get it out.
It was not long before the man came back from his journey , and the first things which he asked for were the key and the egg.
She gave them to him , but she trembled as she did so , and he saw at once by the red spots that she had been in the bloody chamber.
`` Since thou hast gone into the room against my will ,"
said he , `` thou shalt go back into it against thine own.
Thy life is ended"
He threw her down , dragged her thither by her hair , cut her head off on the block , and hewed her in pieces so that her blood ran on the ground.
Then he threw her into the basin with the rest.
`` Now I will fetch myself the second ,"
said the wizard , and again he went to the house in the shape of a poor man , and begged.
Then the second daughter brought him a piece of bread ; he caught her like the first , by simply touching her , and carried her away.
She did not fare better than her sister.
She allowed herself to be led away by her curiosity , opened the door of the bloody chamber , looked in , and had to atone for it with her life on the wizard 's return.
Then he went and brought the third sister , but she was clever and crafty.
When he had given her the keys and the egg , and had left her , she first put the egg away with great care , and then she examined the house , and at last went into the forbidden room.
Alas , what did she behold ! Both her sisters lay there in the basin , cruelly murdered , and cut in pieces.
But she began to gather their limbs together and put them in order , head , body , arms and legs.
And when nothing further was wanting the limbs began to move and unite themselves together , and both the maidens opened their eyes and were once more alive.
Then they rejoiced and kissed and caressed each other.
On his arrival , the man at once demanded the keys and the egg , and as he could perceive no trace of any blood on it , he said , `` Thou hast stood the test , thou shalt be my bride"
He now had no longer any power over her , and was forced to do whatsoever she desired.
`` Oh , very well ,"
said she , `` thou shalt first take a basketful of gold to my father and mother , and carry it thyself on thy back ; in the meantime I will prepare for the wedding"
Then she ran to her sisters , whom she had hidden in a little chamber , and said , `` The moment has come when I can save you.
The wretch shall himself carry you home again , but as soon as you are at home send help to me"
She put both of them in a basket and covered them quite over with gold , so that nothing of them was to be seen , then she called in the wizard and said to him , `` Now carry the basket away , but I shall look through my little window and watch to see if thou stoppest on the way to stand or to rest"
The wizard raised the basket on his back and went away with it , but it weighed him down so heavily that the perspiration streamed from his face.
Then he sat down and wanted to rest awhile , but immediately one of the girls in the basket cried , `` I am looking through my little window , and I see that thou art resting.
Wilt thou go on at once ?"
He thought it was his bride who was calling that to him ; and got up on his legs again.
Once more he was going to sit down , but instantly she cried , `` I am looking through my little window , and I see that thou art resting.
Wilt thou go on directly ?"
And whenever he stood still , she cried this , and then he was forced to go onwards , until at last , groaning and out of breath , he took the basket with the gold and the two maidens into their parents ' house.
At home , however , the bride prepared the marriage-feast , and sent invitations to the friends of the wizard.
Then she took a skull with grinning teeth , put some ornaments on it and a wreath of flowers , carried it upstairs to the garret-window , and let it look out from thence.
When all was ready , she got into a barrel of honey , and then cut the feather-bed open and rolled herself in it , until she looked like a wondrous bird , and no one could recognize her.
Then she went out of the house , and on her way she met some of the wedding-guests , who asked , `` O , Fitcher 's bird , how com ` st thou here ?"
`` I come from Fitcher 's house quite near"
`` And what may the young bride be doing ?"
`` From cellar to garret she 's swept all clean , And now from the window she 's peeping , I ween"
At last she met the bridegroom , who was coming slowly back.
He , like the others , asked , `` O , Fitcher 's bird , how com ` st thou here ?"
`` I come from Fitcher 's house quite near"
`` And what may the young bride be doing ? `` From cellar to garret she 's swept all clean , And now from the window she 's peeping , I ween"
The bridegroom looked up , saw the decked-out skull , thought it was his bride , and nodded to her , greeting her kindly.
But when he and his guests had all gone into the house , the brothers and kinsmen of the bride , who had been sent to rescue her , arrived.
They locked all the doors of the house , that no one might escape , set fire to it , and the wizard and all his crew had to burn"
A tailor and a goldsmith were traveling together , and one evening when the sun had sunk behind the mountains , they heard the sound of distant music , which became more and more distinct.
It sounded strange , but so pleasant that they forgot all their weariness and stepped quickly onwards.
The moon had already arisen when they reached a hill on which they saw a crowd of little men and women , who had taken each other 's hands , and were whirling round in the dance with the greatest pleasure and delight.
They sang to it most charmingly , and that was the music which the travellers had heard.
In the midst of them sat an old man who was rather taller than the rest.
He wore a parti-coloured coat , and his iron-grey beard hung down over his breast.
The two remained standing full of astonishment , and watched the dance.
The old man made a sign that they should enter , and the little folks willingly opened their circle.
The goldsmith , who had a hump , and like all hunchbacks was brave enough , stepped in ; the tailor felt a little afraid at first , and held back , but when he saw how merrily all was going , he plucked up his courage , and followed.
The circle closed again directly , and the little folks went on singing and dancing with the wildest leaps.
The old man , however , took a large knife which hung to his girdle , whetted it , and when it was sufficiently sharpened , he looked round at the strangers.
They were terrified , but they had not much time for reflection , for the old man seized the goldsmith and with the greatest speed , shaved the hair of his head clean off , and then the same thing happened to the tailor.
But their fear left them when , after he had finished his work , the old man clapped them both on the shoulder in a friendly manner , as much as to say , they had behaved well to let all that be done to them willingly , and without any struggle.
He pointed with his finger to a heap of coals which lay at one side , and signified to the travellers by his gestures that they were to fill their pockets with them.
Both of them obeyed , although they did not know of what use the coals would be to them , and then they went on their way to seek a shelter for the night.
When they had got into the valley , the clock of the neighbouring monastery struck twelve , and the song ceased.
In a moment all had vanished , and the hill lay in solitude in the moonlight.
The two travellers found an inn , and covered themselves up on their straw-beds with their coats , but in their weariness forgot to take the coals out of them before doing so.
A heavy weight on their limbs awakened them earlier than usual.
They felt in the pockets , and could not believe their eyes when they saw that they were not filled with coals , but with pure gold ; happily , too , the hair of their heads and beards was there again as thick as ever.
They had now become rich folks , but the goldsmith , who , in accordance with his greedy disposition , had filled his pockets better , was as rich again as the tailor.
A greedy man , even if he has much , still wishes to have more , so the goldsmith proposed to the tailor that they should wait another day , and go out again in the evening in order to bring back still greater treasures from the old man on the hill.
The tailor refused , and said , `` I have enough and am content ; now I shall be a master , and marry my dear object -LRB- for so he called his sweetheart -RRB- , and I am a happy man"
But he stayed another day to please him.
In the evening the goldsmith hung a couple of bags over his shoulders that he might be able to stow away a great deal , and took the road to the hill.
He found , as on the night before , the little folks at their singing and dancing , and the old man again shaved him clean , and signed to him to take some coal away with him.
He was not slow about sticking as much into his bags as would go , went back quite delighted , and covered himself over with his coat.
`` Even if the gold does weigh heavily ,"
said he , `` I will gladly bear that ,"
and at last he fell asleep with the sweet anticipation of waking in the morning an enormously rich man.
When he opened his eyes , he got up in haste to examine his pockets , but how amazed he was when he drew nothing out of them but black coals , and that howsoever often he put his hands in them.
`` The gold I got the night before is still there for me ,"
thought he , and went and brought it out , but how shocked he was when he saw that it likewise had again turned into coal.
He smote his forehead with his dusty black hand , and then he felt that his whole head was bald and smooth , as was also the place where his beard should have been.
But his misfortunes were not yet over ; he now remarked for the first time that in addition to the hump on his back , a second , just as large , had grown in front on his breast.
Then he recognized the punishment of his greediness , and began to weep aloud.
The good tailor , who was wakened by this , comforted the unhappy fellow as well as he could , and said , `` Thou hast been my comrade in my traveling time ; thou shalt stay with me and share in my wealth"
He kept his word , but the poor goldsmith was obliged to carry the two humps as long as he lived , and to cover his bald head with a cap"
This story , my dear young folks , seems to be false , but it really is true , for my grandfather , from whom I have it , used always , when relating it , to say complacently , `` It must be true , my son , or else no one could tell it to you"
The story is as follows.
One Sunday morning about harvest time , just as the buckwheat was in bloom , the sun was shining brightly in heaven , the east wind was blowing warmly over the stubble-fields , the larks were singing in the air , the bees buzzing among the buckwheat , the people were all going in their Sunday clothes to church , and all creatures were happy , and the hedgehog was happy too.
The hedgehog , however , was standing by his door with his arms akimbo , enjoying the morning breezes , and slowly trilling a little song to himself , which was neither better nor worse than the songs which hedgehogs are in the habit of singing on a blessed Sunday morning.
Whilst he was thus singing half aloud to himself , it suddenly occurred to him that , while his wife was washing and drying the children , he might very well take a walk into the field , and see how his turnips were going on.
The turnips were , in fact , close beside his house , and he and his family were accustomed to eat them , for which reason he looked upon them as his own.
No sooner said than done.
The hedgehog shut the house-door behind him , and took the path to the field.
He had not gone very far from home , and was just turning round the sloe-bush which stands there outside the field , to go up into the turnip-field , when he observed the hare who had gone out on business of the same kind , namely , to visit his cabbages.
When the hedgehog caught sight of the hare , he bade him a friendly good morning.
But the hare , who was in his own way a distinguished gentleman , and frightfully haughty , did not return the hedgehog 's greeting , but said to him , assuming at the same time a very contemptuous manner , `` How do you happen to be running about here in the field so early in the morning ?"
`` I am taking a walk ,"
said the hedgehog.
`` A walk !"
said the hare , with a smile.
`` It seems to me that you might use your legs for a better purpose"
This answer made the hedgehog furiously angry , for he can bear anything but an attack on his legs , just because they are crooked by nature.
So now the hedgehog said to the hare , `` You seem to imagine that you can do more with your legs than I with mine"
`` That is just what I do think ,"
said the hare.
`` That can be put to the test ,"
said the hedgehog.
`` I wager that if we run a race , I will outstrip you"
`` That is ridiculous ! You with your short legs !"
said the hare , `` but for my part I am willing , if you have such a monstrous fancy for it.
What shall we wager ?"
`` A golden louis-d ` or and a bottle of brandy ,"
said the hedgehog.
`` Done ,"
said the hare.
`` Shake hands on it , and then we may as well come off at once"
`` Nay ,"
said the hedgehog , `` there is no such great hurry ! I am still fasting , I will go home first , and have a little breakfast.
In half-an-hour I will be back again at this place"
Hereupon the hedgehog departed , for the hare was quite satisfied with this.
On his way the hedgehog thought to himself , `` The hare relies on his long legs , but I will contrive to get the better of him.
He may be a great man , but he is a very silly fellow , and he shall pay for what he has said"
So when the hedgehog reached home , he said to his wife , `` Wife , dress thyself quickly , thou must go out to the field with me"
`` What is going on , then ?"
said his wife.
`` I have made a wager with the hare , for a gold louis-d ` or and a bottle of brandy.
I am to run a race with him , and thou must be present"
`` Good heavens , husband ,"
the wife now cried , `` art thou not right in thy mind , hast thou completely lost thy wits ? What can make thee want to run a race with the hare ?"
`` Hold thy tongue , woman ,"
said the hedgehog , `` that is my affair.
Do n't begin to discuss things which are matters for men.
Be off , dress thyself , and come with me"
What could the hedgehog 's wife do ? She was forced to obey him , whether she liked it or not.
So when they had set out on their way together , the hedgehog said to his wife , `` Now pay attention to what I am going to say.
Look you , I will make the long field our race-course.
The hare shall run in one furrow , and I in another , and we will begin to run from the top.
Now all that thou hast to do is to place thyself here below in the furrow , and when the hare arrives at the end of the furrow , on the other side of thee , thou must cry out to him , ` I am here already ! '"
Then they reached the field , and the hedgehog showed his wife her place , and then walked up the field.
When he reached the top , the hare was already there.
`` Shall we start ?"
said the hare.
`` Certainly ,"
said the hedgehog.
`` Then both at once"
So saying , each placed himself in his own furrow.
The hare counted , `` Once , twice , thrice , and away !"
and went off like a whirlwind down the field.
The hedgehog , however , only ran about three paces , and then he stooped down in the furrow , and stayed quietly where he was.
When the hare therefore arrived in full career at the lower end of the field , the hedgehog 's wife met him with the cry , `` I am here already !"
The hare was shocked and wondered not a little , he thought no other than that it was the hedgehog himself who was calling to him , for the hedgehog 's wife looked just like her husband.
The hare , however , thought to himself , `` That has not been done fairly ,"
and cried , `` It must be run again , let us have it again"
And once more he went off like the wind in a storm , so that he seemed to fly.
But the hedgehog 's wife stayed quietly in her place.
So when the hare reached the top of the field , the hedgehog himself cried out to him , `` I am here already"
The hare , however , quite beside himself with anger , cried , `` It must be run again , we must have it again"
`` All right ,"
answered the hedgehog , `` for my part we 'll run as often as you choose"
So the hare ran seventy-three times more , and the hedgehog always held out against him , and every time the hare reached either the top or the bottom , either the hedgehog or his wife said , `` I am here already"
At the seventy-fourth time , however , the hare could no longer reach the end.
In the middle of the field he fell to the ground , blood streamed out of his mouth , and he lay dead on the spot.
But the hedgehog took the louis-d ` or which he had won and the bottle of brandy , called his wife out of the furrow , and both went home together in great delight , and if they are not dead , they are living there still.
This is how it happened that the hedgehog made the hare run races with him on the Buxtehuder heath till he died , and since that time no hare has ever had any fancy for running races with a Buxtehuder hedgehog.
The moral of this story , however , is , firstly , that no one , however great he may be , should permit himself to jest at any one beneath him , even if he be only a hedgehog.
And , secondly , it teaches , that when a man marries , he should take a wife in his own position , who looks just as he himself looks.
So whosoever is a hedgehog let him see to it that his wife is a hedgehog also , and so forth"
Long , long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supported themselves by cultivating a small plot of land.
Their life had been a very happy and peaceful one save for one great sorrow , and this was they had no child.
Their only pet was a dog named person_1 , and on him they lavished all the affection of their old age.
Indeed , they loved him so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to person_1.
Now person_1 means `` white ,"
and he was so called because of his color.
He was a real Japanese dog , and very like a small wolf in appearance.
The happiest hour of the day both for the old man and his dog was when the man returned from his work in the field , and having finished his frugal supper of rice and vegetables , would take what he had saved from the meal out to the little veranda that ran round the cottage.
Sure enough , person_1 was waiting for his master and the evening tit-bit.
Then the old man said `` Chin , chin !"
and person_1 sat up and begged , and his master gave him the food.
Next door to this good old couple there lived another old man and his wife who were both wicked and cruel , and who hated their good neighbors and the dog person_1 with all their might.
Whenever person_1 happened to look into their kitchen they at once kicked him or threw something at him , sometimes even wounding him.
One day person_1 was heard barking for a long time in the field at the back of his master 's house.
The old man , thinking that perhaps some birds were attacking the corn , hurried out to see what was the matter.
As soon as person_1 saw his master he ran to meet him , wagging his tail , and , seizing the end of his kimono , dragged him under a large yenoki tree.
Here he began to dig very industriously with his paws , yelping with joy all the time.
The old man , unable to understand what it all meant , stood looking on in bewilderment.
But person_1 went on barking and digging with all his might.
The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree , and that the dog had scented it , at last struck the old man.
He ran back to the house , fetched his spade and began to dig the ground at that spot.
What was his astonishment when , after digging for some time , he came upon a heap of old and valuable coins , and the deeper he dug the more gold coins did he find.
So intent was the old man on his work that he never saw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboo hedge.
At last all the gold coins lay shining on the ground.
person_1 sat by erect with pride and looking fondly at his master as if to say , `` You see , though only a dog , I can make some return for all the kindness you show me"
The old man ran in to call his wife , and together they carried home the treasure.
Thus in one day the poor old man became rich.
His gratitude to the faithful dog knew no bounds , and he loved and petted him more than ever , if that were possible.
The cross old neighbor , attracted by person_1 's barking , had been an unseen and envious witness of the finding of the treasure.
He began to think that he , too , would like to find a fortune.
So a few days later he called at the old man 's house and very ceremoniously asked permission to borrow person_1 for a short time.
person_1 's master thought this a strange request , because he knew quite well that not only did his neighbor not love his pet dog , but that he never lost an opportunity of striking and tormenting him whenever the dog crossed his path.
But the good old man was too kind-hearted to refuse his neighbor , so he consented to lend the dog on condition that he should be taken great care of.
The wicked old man returned to his home with an evil smile on his face , and told his wife how he had succeeded in his crafty intentions.
He then took his spade and hastened to his own field , forcing the unwilling person_1 to follow him.
As soon as he reached a yenoki tree , he said to the dog , threateningly : `` If there were gold coins under your master 's tree , there must also be gold coins under my tree.
You must find them for me ! Where are they ? Where ? Where ?"
And catching hold of person_1 's neck he held the dog 's head to the ground , so that person_1 began to scratch and dig in order to free himself from the horrid old man 's grasp.
The old man was very pleased when he saw the dog begin to scratch and dig , for he at once supposed that some gold coins lay buried under his tree as well as under his neighbor 's , and that the dog had scented them as before ; so pushing person_1 away he began to dig himself , but there was nothing to be found.
As he went on digging a foul smell was noticeable , and he at last came upon a refuse heap.
The old man 's disgust can be imagined.
This soon gave way to anger.
He had seen his neighbor 's good fortune , and hoping for the same luck himself , he had borrowed the dog person_1 ; and now , just as he seemed on the point of finding what he sought , only a horrid smelling refuse heap had rewarded him for a morning 's digging.
Instead of blaming his own greed for his disappointment , he blamed the poor dog.
He seized his spade , and with all his strength struck person_1 and killed him on the spot.
He then threw the dog 's body into the hole which he had dug in the hope of finding a treasure of gold coins , and covered it over with the earth.
Then he returned to the house , telling no one , not even his wife , what be had done.
After waiting several days , as the dog person_1 did not return , his master began to grow anxious.
Day after day went by and the good old man waited in vain.
Then he went to his neighbor and asked him to give him back his dog.
Without any shame or hesitation , the wicked neighbor answered that he had killed person_1 because of his bad behavior.
At this dreadful news person_1 's master wept many sad and bitter tears.
Great indeed , was his woful surprise , but he was too good and gentle to reproach his bad neighbor.
Learning that person_1 was buried under the yenoki tree in the field , he asked the old man to give him the tree , in remembrance of his poor dog person_1.
Even the cross old neighbor could not refuse such a simple request , so he consented to give the old man the tree under which person_1 lay buried.
person_1 's master then cut the tree down and carried it home.
Out of the trunk he made a mortar.
In this his wife put some rice , and he began to pound it with the intention of making a festival to the memory of his dog person_1.
A strange thing happened ! His wife put the rice into the mortar , and no sooner had he begun to pound it to make the cakes , than it began to increase in quantity gradually till it was about five times the original amount , and the cakes were turned out of the mortar as if an invisible hand were at work.
When the old man and his wife saw this , they understood that it was a reward to them from person_1 for their faithful love to him.
They tasted the cakes and found them nicer than any other food.
So from this time they never troubled about food , for they lived upon the cakes with which the mortar never ceased to supply them.
The greedy neighbor , hearing of this new piece of good luck , was filled with envy as before , and called on the old man and asked leave to borrow the wonderful mortar for a short time , pretending that he , too , sorrowed for the death of person_1 , and wished to make cakes for a festival to the dog 's memory.
The old man did not in the least wish to lend it to his cruel neighbor , but he was too kind to refuse.
So the envious man carried home the mortar , but he never brought it back.
Several days passed , and person_1 's master waited in vain for the mortar , so he went to call on the borrower , and asked him to be good enough to return the mortar if he had finished with it.
He found him sitting by a big fire made of pieces of wood.
On the ground lay what looked very much like pieces of a broken mortar.
In answer to the old man 's inquiry , the wicked neighbor answered haughtily : `` Have you come to ask me for your mortar ? I broke it to pieces , and now I am making a fire of the wood , for when I tried to pound cakes in it only some horrid smelling stuff came out"
The good old man said : `` I am very sorry for that.
It is a great pity you did not ask me for the cakes if you wanted them.
I would have given you as many as ever you wanted.
Now please give me the ashes of the mortar , as I wish to keep them in remembrance of my dog"
The neighbor consented at once , and the old man carried home a basket full of ashes.
Not long after this the old man accidentally scattered some of the ashes made by the burning of the mortar on the trees of his garden.
A wonderful thing happened ! It was late in autumn and all the trees had shed their leaves , but no sooner did the ashes touch their branches than the cherry trees , the plum trees , and all other blossoming shrubs burst into bloom , so that the old man 's garden was suddenly transformed into a beautiful picture of spring.
The old man 's delight knew no bounds , and he carefully preserved the remaining ashes.
The story of the old man 's garden spread far and wide , and people from far and near came to see the wonderful sight.
One day , soon after this , the old man heard some one knocking at his door , and going to the porch to see who it was he was surprised to see a Knight standing there.
This Knight told him that he was a retainer of a great person_0 -LRB- Earl -RRB- ; that one of the favorite cherry trees in this nobleman 's garden had withered , and that though every one in his service had tried all manner of means to revive it , none took effect.
The Knight was sore perplexed when he saw what great displeasure the loss of his favorite cherry tree caused the person_0.
At this point , fortunately , they had heard that there was a wonderful old man who could make withered trees to blossom , and that his Lord had sent him to ask the old man to come to him.
`` And ,"
added the Knight , `` I shall be very much obliged if you will come at once"
The good old man was greatly surprised at what he heard , but respectfully followed the Knight to the nobleman 's Palace.
The person_0 , who had been impatiently awaiting the old man 's coming , as soon as he saw him asked him at once : `` Are you the old man who can make withered trees flower even out of season ?"
The old man made an obeisance , and replied : `` I am that old man !"
Then the person_0 said : `` You must make that dead cherry tree in my garden blossom again by means of your famous ashes.
I shall look on"
Then they all went into the garden -- the person_0 and his retainers and the ladies-in waiting , who carried the person_0 's sword.
The old man now tucked up his kimono and made ready to climb the tree.
Saying `` Excuse me ,"
he took the pot of ashes which he had brought with him , and began to climb the tree , every one watching his movements with great interest.
At last he climbed to the spot where the tree divided into two great branches , and taking up his position here , the old man sat down and scattered the ashes right and left all over the branches and twigs.
Wonderful , indeed , was the result ! The withered tree at once burst into full bloom ! The person_0 was so transported with joy that he looked as if he would go mad.
He rose to his feet and spread out his fan , calling the old man down from the tree.
He himself gave the old man a wine cup filled with the best SAKE , and rewarded him with much silver and gold and many other precious things.
The person_0 ordered that henceforth the old man should call himself by the name of Hana - Saka-Jijii , or `` The Old Man who makes the Trees to Blossom ,"
and that henceforth all were to recognize him by this name , and he sent him home with great honor.
The wicked neighbor , as before , heard of the good old man 's fortune , and of all that had so auspiciously befallen him , and he could not suppress all the envy and jealousy that filled his heart.
He called to mind how he had failed in his attempt to find the gold coins , and then in making the magic cakes ; this time surely he must succeed if he imitated the old man , who made withered trees to flower simply by sprinkling ashes on them.
This would be the simplest task of all.
So he set to work and gathered together all the ashes which remained in the fire-place from the burning of the wonderful mortar.
Then he set out in the hope of finding some great man to employ him , calling out loudly as he went along : `` Here comes the wonderful man who can make withered trees blossom ! Here comes the old man who can make dead trees blossom !"
The person_0 in his Palace heard this cry , and said : `` That must be the Hana-Saka-Jijii passing.
I have nothing to do to - day.
Let him try his art again ; it will amuse me to look on"
So the retainers went out and brought in the impostor before their Lord.
The satisfaction of false old man can now be imagined.
But the person_0 looking at him , thought it strange that he was not at all like the old man he had seen before , so he asked him : `` Are you the man whom I named Hana-Saka-Jijii ?"
And the envious neighbor answered with a lie : `` Yes , my Lord !"
`` That is strange !"
said the person_0.
`` I thought there was only one Hana-Saka-Jijii in the world ! Has he now some disciples ?"
`` I am the true Hana-Saka-Jijii.
The one who came to you before was only my disciple !"
replied the old man again.
`` Then you must be more skillful than the other.
Try what you can do and let me see !"
The envious neighbor , with the person_0 and his Court following , then went into the garden , and approaching a dead tree , took out a handful of the ashes which he carried with him , and scattered them over the tree.
But not only did the tree not burst into flower , but not even a bud came forth.
Thinking that he had not used enough ashes , the old man took handfuls and again sprinkled them over the withered tree.
But all to no effect.
After trying several times , the ashes were blown into the person_0 's eyes.
This made him very angry , and he ordered his retainers to arrest the false Hana-Saka-Jijii at once and put him in prison for an impostor.
From this imprisonment the wicked old man was never freed.
Thus did he meet with punishment at last for all his evil doings.
The good old man , however , with the treasure of gold coins which person_1 had found for him , and with all the gold and the silver which the person_0 had showered on him , became a rich and prosperous man in his old age , and lived a long and happy life , beloved and respected by all"
A duck arrived from Portugal.
Some said she came from Spain , but that 's all the same.
At any rate she was called the person_0 , and laid eggs , and was killed and cooked , and that was _ her _ career.
But the ducklings which crept forth from her eggs were afterwards also called person_0 , and there is something in that.
Now , of the whole family there was only one left in the duck-yard , a yard to which the chickens had access likewise , and where the cock strutted about in a very aggressive manner.
`` He annoys me with his loud crowing !"
observed the person_0 duck.
`` But he 's a handsome bird , there 's no denying that , though he is not a drake.
He ought to moderate his voice , but that 's an art inseparable from polite education , like that possessed by the little singing birds over in the lime trees in the neighbour 's garden.
How charmingly they sing ! There 's something quite pretty in their warbling.
I call it Portugal.
If I had only such a little singing bird , I 'd be a mother to him , kind and good , for that 's in my blood , my person_0 blood !"
And while she was still speaking , a little singing bird came head over heels from the roof into the yard.
The cat was behind him , but the bird escaped with a broken wing , and that 's how he came tumbling into the yard.
`` That 's just like the cat ; she 's a villain !"
said the person_0 duck.
`` I remember her ways when I had children of my own.
That such a creature should be allowed to live , and to wander about upon the roofs ! I do n't think they do such things in Portugal !"
And she pitied the little singing bird , and the other ducks who were not of person_0 descent pitied him too.
`` Poor little creature !"
they said , as one after another came up.
`` We certainly ca n't sing ,"
they said , `` but we have a sounding board , or something of the kind , within us ; we can feel that , though we do n't talk of it"
`` But I can talk of it ,"
said the person_0 duck ; `` and I 'll do something for the little fellow , for that 's my duty !"
And she stepped into the water-trough , and beat her wings upon the water so heartily , that the little singing bird was almost drowned by the bath she got , but the duck meant it kindly.
`` That 's a good deed ,"
she said : `` the others may take example by it"
`` Piep !"
said the little bird ; one of his wings was broken , and he found it difficult to shake himself ; but he quite understood that the bath was kindly meant.
`` You are very kind-hearted , madam ,"
he said ; but he did not wish for a second bath.
`` I have never thought about my heart ,"
continued the person_0 duck , `` but I know this much , that I love all my fellow-creatures except the cat ; but nobody can expect me to love her , for she ate up two of my ducklings.
But pray make yourself at home , for one can make oneself comfortable.
I myself am from a strange country , as you may see from my bearing , and from my feathery dress.
My drake is a native of these parts , he 's not of my race ; but for all that I 'm not proud ! If any one here in the yard can understand you , I may assert that I am that person"
`` She 's quite full of Portulak ,"
said a little common duck , who was witty ; and all the other common ducks considered the word _ Portulak _ quite a good joke , for it sounded like Portugal ; and they nudged each other and said `` Rapp !"
It was too witty ! And all the other ducks now began to notice the little singing bird.
`` The person_0 has certainly a greater command of language ,"
they said.
`` For our part , we do n't care to fill our beaks with such long words , but our sympathy is just as great.
If we do n't do anything for you , we march about with you everywhere ; and we think that the best thing we can do"
`` You have a lovely voice ,"
said one of the oldest.
`` It must be a great satisfaction to be able to give so much pleasure as you are able to impart.
I certainly am no great judge of your song , and consequently I keep my beak shut ; and even that is better than talking nonsense to you , as others do"
`` Do n't plague him so ,"
interposed the person_0 duck : `` he requires rest and nursing.
My little singing bird , do you wish me to prepare another bath for you ?"
`` Oh no ! pray let me be dry !"
was the little bird 's petition.
`` The water-cure is the only remedy for me when I am unwell ,"
quoth the person_0.
`` Amusement is beneficial too ! The neighbouring fowls will soon come to pay their visit.
There are two Cochin Chinese among them.
They wear feathers on their legs , are well educated , and have been brought from afar , consequently they stand higher than the others in my regard"
And the fowls came , and the cock came ; to-day he was polite enough to abstain from being rude.
`` You are a true singing bird ,"
he said , `` and you do as much with your little voice as can possibly be done with it.
But one requires a little more shrillness , that every hearer may hear that one is a male"
The two Chinese stood quite enchanted with the appearance of the singing bird.
He looked very much rumpled after his bath , so that he seemed to them to have quite the appearance of a little Cochin China fowl.
`` He 's charming ,"
they cried , and began a conversation with him , speaking in whispers , and using the most aristocratic Chinese dialect.
-LRB- Illustration : THE LITTLE SINGING BIRD RECEIVES DISTINGUISHED PATRONAGE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` We are of your race ,"
they continued.
`` The ducks , even the person_0 , are swimming birds , as you can not fail to have noticed.
You do not know us yet ; very few know us , or give themselves the trouble to make our acquaintance -- not even any of the fowls , though we are born to occupy a higher grade on the ladder than most of the rest.
But that does not disturb us : we quietly pursue our path amid the others , whose principles are certainly not ours ; for we look at things on the favourable side , and only speak of what is good , though it is difficult sometimes to find something when nothing exists.
Except us two and the cock , there 's no one in the whole poultry-yard who is at once talented and polite.
It can not even be said of the inhabitants of the duck-yard.
We warn you , little singing bird : do n't trust that one yonder with the short tail feathers , for she 's cunning.
The pied one there , with the crooked stripes on her wings , is a strife-seeker , and lets nobody have the last word , though she 's always in the wrong.
The fat duck yonder speaks evil of every one , and that 's against our principles : if we have nothing good to tell , we should hold our beaks.
The person_0 is the only one who has any education , and with whom one can associate , but she is passionate , and talks too much about Portugal"
`` I wonder what those two Chinese are always whispering to one another about ,"
whispered one duck to her friend.
`` They annoy me -- we have never spoken to them"
Now the drake came up.
He thought the little singing bird was a sparrow.
`` Well , I do n't understand the difference ,"
he said ; `` and indeed it 's all the same thing.
He 's only a plaything , and if one has them , why , one has them"
`` Do n't attach any value to what he says ,"
the person_0 whispered.
`` He 's very respectable in business matters ; and with him business takes precedence of everything.
But now I shall lie down for a rest.
One owes that to oneself , that one may be nice and fat when one is to be embalmed with apples and plums"
And accordingly she lay down in the sun , and winked with one eye ; and she lay very comfortably , and she felt very comfortable , and she slept very comfortably.
The little singing bird busied himself with his broken wing.
At last he lay down too , and pressed close to his protectress : the sun shone warm and bright , and he had found a very good place.
But the neighbour 's fowls were awake.
They went about scratching up the earth ; and , to tell the truth , they had paid the visit simply and solely to find food for themselves.
The Chinese were the first to leave the duck-yard ; and the other fowls soon followed them.
The witty little duck said of the person_0 that the old lady was becoming a ducky dotard.
At this the other ducks laughed and cackled aloud.
`` Ducky dotard ,"
they whispered ; `` that 's too witty !"
and then they repeated the former joke about Portulak , and declared that it was vastly amusing.
And then they lay down.
They had been lying asleep for some time , when suddenly something was thrown into the yard for them to eat.
It came down with such a thwack , that the whole company started up from sleep and clapped their wings.
The person_0 awoke too , and threw herself over on the other side , pressing the little singing bird very hard as she did so.
`` Piep !"
he cried ; `` you trod very hard upon me , madam"
`` Well , why do you lie in my way ?"
the duck retorted.
`` You must not be so touchy.
I have nerves of my own , but yet I never called out ` Piep ! ' `` Do n't be angry ,"
said the little bird `` the ` piep ' came out of my beak unawares"
The person_0 did not listen to him , but began eating as fast as she could , and made a good meal.
When this was ended , and she lay down again , the little bird came up , and wanted to be amiable , and sang : `` Tillee-lilly lee , Of the good spring time , I 'll sing so fine As far away I flee"
`` Now I want to rest after my dinner ,"
said the person_0.
`` You must conform to the rules of the house while you 're here.
I want to sleep now"
The little singing bird was quite taken aback , for he had meant it kindly.
When Madam afterwards awoke , he stood before her again with a little corn that he had found , and laid it at her feet ; but as she had not slept well , she was naturally in a very bad humor.
`` Give that to a chicken !"
she said , `` and do n't be always standing in my way"
`` Why are you angry with me ?"
replied the little singing bird.
`` What have I done ?"
`` Done !"
repeated the person_0 duck : `` your mode of expression is not exactly genteel ; a fact to which I must call your attention"
`` Yesterday it was sunshine here ,"
said the little bird , `` but to-day it 's cloudy and the air is close"
`` You do n't know much about the weather , I fancy ,"
retorted the person_0.
`` The day is not done yet.
Do n't stand there looking so stupid"
`` But you are looking at me just as the wicked eyes looked when I fell into the yard yesterday"
`` Impertinent creature !"
exclaimed the person_0 duck , `` would you compare me with the cat , that beast of prey ? There 's not a drop of malicious blood in me.
I 've taken your part , and will teach you good manners"
And so saying , she bit off the singing bird 's head , and he lay dead on the ground.
`` Now , what 's the meaning of this ?"
she said , `` could he not bear even that ? Then certainly he was not made for this world.
I 've been like a mother to him I know that , for I 've a good heart"
Then the neighbour 's cock stuck his head into the yard , and crowed with steam-engine power.
`` You 'll kill me with your crowing !"
she cried.
`` It 's all your fault.
He 's lost his head , and I am very near losing mine"
`` There 's not much lying where he fell !"
observed the cock.
`` Speak of him with respect ,"
retorted the person_0 duck , `` for he had song , manners , and education.
He was affectionate and soft , and that 's as good in animals , as in your so-called human beings"
And all the ducks came crowding round the little dead singing bird.
Ducks have strong passions , whether they feel envy or pity ; and as there was nothing here to envy , pity manifested itself , even in the two Chinese.
`` We shall never get such a singing bird again ; he was almost a Chinese ,"
they whispered , and they wept with a mighty clucking sound , and all the fowls clucked too ; but the ducks went about with the redder eyes.
`` We 've hearts of our own ,"
they said ; `` nobody can deny that"
`` Hearts !"
repeated the person_0 , `` yes , that we have , almost as much as in Portugal"
`` Let us think of getting something to satisfy our hunger ,"
said the drake , `` for that 's the most important point.
If one of our toys is broken , why , we have plenty more !"
There was once on a time a girl who was young and beautiful , but she had lost her mother when she was quite a child , and her step-mother did all she could to make the girl 's life wretched.
Whenever this woman gave her anything to do , she worked at it indefatigably , and did everything that lay in her power.
Still she could not touch the heart of the wicked woman by that ; she was never satisfied ; it was never enough.
The harder the girl worked , the more work was put upon her , and all that the woman thought of was how to weigh her down with still heavier burdens , and make her life still more miserable.
One day she said to her , `` Here are twelve pounds of feathers which thou must pick , and if they are not done this evening , thou mayst expect a good beating.
Dost thou imagine thou art to idle away the whole day ?"
The poor girl sat down to the work , but tears ran down her cheeks as she did so , for she saw plainly enough that it was quite impossible to finish the work in one day.
Whenever she had a little heap of feathers lying before her , and she sighed or smote her hands together in her anguish , they flew away , and she had to pick them out again , and begin her work anew.
Then she put her elbows on the table , laid her face in her two hands , and cried , `` Is there no one , then , on God 's earth to have pity on me ?"
Then she heard a low voice which said , `` Be comforted , my child , I have come to help thee"
The maiden looked up , and an old woman was by her side.
She took the girl kindly by the hand , and said , `` Only tell me what is troubling thee"
As she spoke so kindly , the girl told her of her miserable life , and how one burden after another was laid upon her , and she never could get to the end of the work which was given to her.
`` If I have not done these feathers by this evening , my step-mother will beat me ; she has threatened she will , and I know she keeps her word"
Her tears began to flow again , but the good old woman said , `` Do not be afraid , my child ; rest a while , and in the meantime I will look to thy work"
The girl lay down on her bed , and soon fell asleep.
The old woman seated herself at the table with the feathers , and how they did fly off the quills , which she scarcely touched with her withered hands ! The twelve pounds were soon finished , and when the girl awoke , great snow-white heaps were lying , piled up , and everything in the room was neatly cleared away , but the old woman had vanished.
The maiden thanked God , and sat still till evening came , when the step-mother came in and marvelled to see the work completed.
`` Just look , you awkward creature ,"
said she , `` what can be done when people are industrious ; and why couldst thou not set about something else ? There thou sittest with thy hands crossed"
When she went out she said , `` The creature is worth more than her salt.
I must give her some work that is still harder"
Next morning she called the girl , and said , `` There is a spoon for thee ; with that thou must empty out for me the great pond which is beside the garden , and if it is not done by night , thou knowest what will happen"
The girl took the spoon , and saw that it was full of holes ; but even if it had not been , she never could have emptied the pond with it.
She set to work at once , knelt down by the water , into which her tears were falling , and began to empty it.
But the good old woman appeared again , and when she learned the cause of her grief , she said , `` Be of good cheer , my child.
Go into the thicket and lie down and sleep ; I will soon do thy work"
As soon as the old woman was alone , she barely touched the pond , and a vapor rose up on high from the water , and mingled itself with the clouds.
Gradually the pond was emptied , and when the maiden awoke before sunset and came thither , she saw nothing but the fishes which were struggling in the mud.
She went to her step-mother , and showed her that the work was done.
`` It ought to have been done long before this ,"
said she , and grew white with anger , but she meditated something new.
On the third morning she said to the girl , `` Thou must build me a castle on the plain there , and it must be ready by the evening"
The maiden was dismayed , and said , `` How can I complete such a great work ?"
`` I will endure no opposition ,"
screamed the step-mother.
`` If thou canst empty a pond with a spoon that is full of holes , thou canst build a castle too.
I will take possession of it this very day , and if anything is wanting , even if it be the most trifling thing in the kitchen or cellar , thou knowest what lies before thee !"
She drove the girl out , and when she entered the valley , the rocks were there , piled up one above the other , and all her strength would not have enabled her even to move the very smallest of them.
She sat down and wept , and still she hoped the old woman would help her.
The old woman was not long in coming ; she comforted her and said , `` Lie down there in the shade and sleep , and I will soon build the castle for thee.
If it would be a pleasure to thee , thou canst live in it thyself"
When the maiden had gone away , the old woman touched the gray rocks.
They began to rise , and immediately moved together as if giants had built the walls ; and on these the building arose , and it seemed as if countless hands were working invisibly , and placing one stone upon another.
There was a dull heavy noise from the ground ; pillars arose of their own accord on high , and placed themselves in order near each other.
The tiles laid themselves in order on the roof , and when noon-day came , the great weather-cock was already turning itself on the summit of the tower , like a golden figure of the Virgin with fluttering garments.
The inside of the castle was being finished while evening was drawing near.
How the old woman managed it , I know not ; but the walls of the rooms were hung with silk and velvet , embroidered chairs were there , and richly ornamented arm-chairs by marble tables ; crystal chandeliers hung down from the ceilings , and mirrored themselves in the smooth pavement ; green parrots were there in gilt cages , and so were strange birds which sang most beautifully , and there was on all sides as much magnificence as if a king were going to live there.
The sun was just setting when the girl awoke , and the brightness of a thousand lights flashed in her face.
She hurried to the castle , and entered by the open door.
The steps were spread with red cloth , and the golden balustrade beset with flowering trees.
When she saw the splendor of the apartment , she stood as if turned to stone.
Who knows how long she might have stood there if she had not remembered the step-mother ? `` Alas !"
she said to herself , `` if she could but be satisfied at last , and would give up making my life a misery to me"
The girl went and told her that the castle was ready.
`` I will move into it at once ,"
said she , and rose from her seat.
When they entered the castle , she was forced to hold her hand before her eyes , the brilliancy of everything was so dazzling.
`` Thou seest ,"
said she to the girl , `` how easy it has been for thee to do this ; I ought to have given thee something harder"
She went through all the rooms , and examined every corner to see if anything was wanting or defective ; but she could discover nothing.
`` Now we will go down below ,"
said she , looking at the girl with malicious eyes.
`` The kitchen and the cellar still have to be examined , and if thou hast forgotten anything thou shalt not escape thy punishment"
But the fire was burning on the hearth , and the meat was cooking in the pans , the tongs and shovel were leaning against the wall , and the shining brazen utensils all arranged in sight.
Nothing was wanting , not even a coal-box and water-pail.
`` Which is the way to the cellar ?"
she cried.
`` If that is not abundantly filled , it shall go ill with thee"
She herself raised up the trap-door and descended ; but she had hardly made two steps before the heavy trap-door which was only laid back , fell down.
The girl heard a scream , lifted up the door very quickly to go to her aid , but she had fallen down , and the girl found her lying lifeless at the bottom.
And now the magnificent castle belonged to the girl alone.
She at first did not know how to reconcile herself to her good fortune.
Beautiful dresses were hanging in the wardrobes , the chests were filled with gold or silver , or with pearls and jewels , and she never felt a desire that she was not able to gratify.
And soon the fame of the beauty and riches of the maiden went over all the world.
Wooers presented themselves daily , but none pleased her.
At length the son of the King came and he knew how to touch her heart , and she betrothed herself to him.
In the garden of the castle was a lime-tree , under which they were one day sitting together , when he said to her , `` I will go home and obtain my father 's consent to our marriage.
I entreat thee to wait for me here under this lime-tree , I shall be back with thee in a few hours"
The maiden kissed him on his left cheek , and said , `` Keep true to me , and never let any one else kiss thee on this cheek.
I will wait here under the lime-tree until thou returnest"
The maid stayed beneath the lime-tree until sunset , but he did not return.
She sat three days from morning till evening , waiting for him , but in vain.
As he still was not there by the fourth day , she said , `` Some accident has assuredly befallen him.
I will go out and seek him , and will not come back until I have found him"
She packed up three of her most beautiful dresses , one embroidered with bright stars , the second with silver moons , the third with golden suns , tied up a handful of jewels in her handkerchief , and set out.
She inquired everywhere for her betrothed , but no one had seen him ; no one knew anything about him.
Far and wide did she wander through the world , but she found him not.
At last she hired herself to a farmer as a cow-herd , and buried her dresses and jewels beneath a stone.
And now she lived as a herdswoman , guarded her herd , and was very sad and full of longing for her beloved one ; she had a little calf which she taught to know her , and fed it out of her own hand , and when she said , `` Little calf , little calf , kneel by my side , And do not forget thy shepherd-maid , As the prince forgot his betrothed bride , Who waited for him ` neath the lime-tree 's shade"
the little calf knelt down , and she stroked it.
And when she had lived for a couple of years alone and full of grief , a report was spread over all the land that the King 's daughter was about to celebrate her marriage.
The road to the town passed through the village where the maiden was living , and it came to pass that once when the maiden was driving out her herd , her bridegroom traveled by.
He was sitting proudly on his horse , and never looked round , but when she saw him she recognized her beloved , and it was just as if a sharp knife had pierced her heart.
`` Alas !"
said she , `` I believed him true to me , but he has forgotten me"
Next day he again came along the road.
When he was near her she said to the little calf , `` Little calf , little calf , kneel by my side , And do not forget thy shepherd-maid , As the prince forgot his betrothed bride , Who waited for him ` neath the lime-tree 's shade"
When he was aware of the voice , he looked down and reined in his horse.
He looked into the herd 's face , and then put his hands before his eyes as if he were trying to remember something , but he soon rode onwards and was out of sight.
`` Alas !"
said she , `` he no longer knows me ,"
and her grief was ever greater.
Soon after this a great festival three days long was to be held at the King 's court , and the whole country was invited to it.
`` Now will I try my last chance ,"
thought the maiden , and when evening came she went to the stone under which she had buried her treasures.
She took out the dress with the golden suns , put it on , and adorned herself with the jewels.
She let down her hair , which she had concealed under a handkerchief , and it fell down in long curls about her , and thus she went into the town , and in the darkness was observed by no one.
When she entered the brightly-lighted hall , every one started back in amazement , but no one knew who she was.
The King 's son went to meet her , but he did not recognize her.
He led her out to dance , and was so enchanted with her beauty , that he thought no more of the other bride.
When the feast was over , she vanished in the crowd , and hastened before daybreak to the village , where she once more put on her herd 's dress.
Next evening she took out the dress with the silver moons , and put a half-moon made of precious stones in her hair.
When she appeared at the festival , all eyes were turned upon her , but the King 's son hastened to meet her , and filled with love for her , danced with her alone , and no longer so much as glanced at anyone else.
Before she went away she was forced to promise him to come again to the festival on the last evening.
When she appeared for the third time , she wore the star-dress which sparkled at every step she took , and her hair-ribbon and girdle were starred with jewels.
The prince had already been waiting for her for a long time , and forced his way up to her.
`` Do but tell who thou art ,"
said he , `` I feel just as if I had already known thee a long time"
`` Dost thou not know what I did when thou leftest me ?"
Then she stepped up to him , and kissed him on his left cheek , and in a moment it was as if scales fell from his eyes , and he recognized the true bride.
`` Come ,"
said he to her , `` here I stay no longer ,"
gave her his hand , and led her down to the carriage.
The horses hurried away to the magic castle as if the wind had been harnessed to the carriage.
The illuminated windows already shone in the distance.
When they drove past the lime-tree , countless glow-worms were swarming about it.
It shook its branches , and sent forth their fragrance.
On the steps flowers were blooming , and the room echoed with the song of strange birds , but in the hall the entire court was assembled , and the priest was waiting to marry the bridegroom to the true bride"
Long , long ago there lived a man called person_1.
His surname meant `` Millionaire ,"
but although he was not so rich as all that , he was still very far removed from being poor.
He had inherited a small fortune from his father and lived on this , spending his time carelessly , without any serious thoughts of work , till he was about thirty-two years of age.
One day , without any reason whatsoever , the thought of death and sickness came to him.
The idea of falling ill or dying made him very wretched.
`` I should like to live ,"
he said to himself , `` till I am five or six hundred years old at least , free from all sickness.
The ordinary span of a man 's life is very short"
He wondered whether it were possible , by living simply and frugally henceforth , to prolong his life as long as he wished.
He knew there were many stories in ancient history of emperors who had lived a thousand years , and there was a Princess of Yamato , who , it was said , lived to the age of five hundred This was the latest story of a very long life record.
person_1 had often heard the tale of the Chinese King named Shin-no - Shiko.
He was one of the most able and powerful rulers in Chinese history.
He built all the large palaces , and also the famous great wall of China.
He had everything in the world he could wish for , but in spite of all his happiness and the luxury and the splendor of his Court , the wisdom of his councilors and the glory of his reign , he was miserable because he knew that one day he must die and leave it all.
When Shin-no-Shiko went to bed at night , when he rose in the morning , as he went through his day , the thought of death was always with him.
He could not get away from it.
Ah -- if only he could find the `` Elixir of person_2 ,"
he would be happy.
The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the `` Elixir of person_2"
of which he had so often read and heard.
One old courtier , person_0 by name , said that far away across the seas there was a country called Horaizan , and that certain hermits lived there who possessed the secret of the `` Elixir of person_2"
Whoever drank of this wonderful draught lived forever.
The Emperor ordered person_0 to set out for the land of Horaizan , to find the hermits , and to bring him back a phial of the magic elixir.
He gave person_0 one of his best junks , fitted it out for him , and loaded it with great quantities of treasures and precious stones for person_0 to take as presents to the hermits.
person_0 sailed for the land of Horaizan , but he never returned to the waiting Emperor ; but ever since that time Mount Fuji has been said to be the fabled Horaizan and the home of hermits who had the secret of the elixir , and person_0 has been worshiped as their patron god.
Now person_1 determined to set out to find the hermits , and if he could , to become one , so that he might obtain the water of perpetual life.
He remembered that as a child he had been told that not only did these hermits live on Mount Fuji , but that they were said to inhabit all the very high peaks.
So he left his old home to the care of his relatives , and started out on his quest.
He traveled through all the mountainous regions of the land , climbing to the tops of the highest peaks , but never a hermit did he find.
At last , after wandering in an unknown region for many days , he met a hunter.
`` Can you tell me ,"
asked person_1 , `` where the hermits live who have the Elixir of person_2 ?"
`` No"
said the hunter ; `` I ca n't tell you where such hermits live , but there is a notorious robber living in these parts.
It is said that he is chief of a band of two hundred followers"
This odd answer irritated person_1 very much , and he thought how foolish it was to waste more time in looking for the hermits in this way , so he decided to go at once to the shrine of person_0 , who is worshiped as the patron god of the hermits in the south of Japan.
person_1 reached the shrine and prayed for seven days , entreating person_0 to show him the way to a hermit who could give him what he wanted so much to find.
At midnight of the seventh day , as person_1 knelt in the temple , the door of the innermost shrine flew open , and person_0 appeared in a luminous cloud , and calling to person_1 to come nearer , spoke thus : `` Your desire is a very selfish one and can not be easily granted.
You think that you would like to become a hermit so as to find the Elixir of person_2.
Do you know how hard a hermit 's life is ? A hermit is only allowed to eat fruit and berries and the bark of pine trees ; a hermit must cut himself off from the world so that his heart may become as pure as gold and free from every earthly desire.
Gradually after following these strict rules , the hermit ceases to feel hunger or cold or heat , and his body becomes so light that he can ride on a crane or a carp , and can walk on water without getting his feet wet"
`` You , person_1 , are fond of good living and of every comfort.
You are not even like an ordinary man , for you are exceptionally idle , and more sensitive to heat and cold than most people.
You would never be able to go barefoot or to wear only one thin dress in the winter time ! Do you think that you would ever have the patience or the endurance to live a hermit 's life ?"
`` In answer to your prayer , however , I will help you in another way.
I will send you to the country of Perpetual person_2 , where death never comes -- where the people live forever !"
Saying this , person_0 put into person_1 's hand a little crane made of paper , telling him to sit on its back and it would carry him there.
person_1 obeyed wonderingly.
The crane grew large enough for him to ride on it with comfort.
It then spread its wings , rose high in the air , and flew away over the mountains right out to sea.
person_1 was at first quite frightened ; but by degrees he grew accustomed to the swift flight through the air.
On and on they went for thousands of miles.
The bird never stopped for rest or food , but as it was a paper bird it doubtless did not require any nourishment , and strange to say , neither did person_1.
After several days they reached an island.
The crane flew some distance inland and then alighted.
As soon as person_1 got down from the bird 's back , the crane folded up of its own accord and flew into his pocket.
Now person_1 began to look about him wonderingly , curious to see what the country of Perpetual person_2 was like.
He walked first round about the country and then through the town.
Everything was , of course , quite strange , and different from his own land.
But both the land and the people seemed prosperous , so he decided that it would be good for him to stay there and took up lodgings at one of the hotels.
The proprietor was a kind man , and when person_1 told him that he was a stranger and had come to live there , he promised to arrange everything that was necessary with the governor of the city concerning person_1 's sojourn there.
He even found a house for his guest , and in this way person_1 obtained his great wish and became a resident in the country of Perpetual person_2.
Within the memory of all the islanders no man had ever died there , and sickness was a thing unknown.
Priests had come over from India and China and told them of a beautiful country called Paradise , where happiness and bliss and contentment fill all men 's hearts , but its gates could only be reached by dying.
This tradition was handed down for ages from generation to generation -- but none knew exactly what death was except that it led to Paradise.
Quite unlike person_1 and other ordinary people , instead of having a great dread of death , they all , both rich and poor , longed for it as something good and desirable.
They were all tired of their long , long lives , and longed to go to the happy land of contentment called Paradise of which the priests had told them centuries ago.
All this person_1 soon found out by talking to the islanders.
He found himself , according to his ideas , in the land of Topsyturvydom.
Everything was upside down.
He had wished to escape from dying.
He had come to the land of Perpetual person_2 with great relief and joy , only to find that the inhabitants themselves , doomed never to die , would consider it bliss to find death.
What he had hitherto considered poison these people ate as good food , and all the things to which he had been accustomed as food they rejected.
Whenever any merchants from other countries arrived , the rich people rushed to them eager to buy poisons.
These they swallowed eagerly , hoping for death to come so that they might go to Paradise.
But what were deadly poisons in other lands were without effect in this strange place , and people who swallowed them with the hope of dying , only found that in a short time they felt better in health instead of worse.
Vainly they tried to imagine what death could be like.
The wealthy would have given all their money and all their goods if they could but shorten their lives to two or three hundred years even.
Without any change to live on forever seemed to this people wearisome and sad.
In the chemist shops there was a drug which was in constant demand , because after using it for a hundred years , it was supposed to turn the hair slightly gray and to bring about disorders of the stomach.
person_1 was astonished to find that the poisonous globe-fish was served up in restaurants as a delectable dish , and hawkers in the streets went about selling sauces made of Spanish flies.
He never saw any one ill after eating these horrible things , nor did he ever see any one with as much as a cold.
person_1 was delighted.
He said to himself that he would never grow tired of living , and that he considered it profane to wish for death.
He was the only happy man on the island.
For his part he wished to live thousands of years and to enjoy life.
He set himself up in business , and for the present never even dreamed of going back to his native land.
As years went by , however , things did not go as smoothly as at first.
He had heavy losses in business , and several times some affairs went wrong with his neighbors.
This caused him great annoyance.
Time passed like the flight of an arrow for him , for he was busy from morning till night.
Three hundred years went by in this monotonous way , and then at last he began to grow tired of life in this country , and he longed to see his own land and his old home.
However long he lived here , life would always be the game , so was it not foolish and wearisome to stay on here forever ? person_1 , in his wish to escape from the country of Perpetual person_2 , recollected person_0 , who had helped him before when he was wishing to escape from death -- and he prayed to the saint to bring him back to his own land again.
No sooner did he pray than the paper crane popped out of his pocket.
person_1 was amazed to see that it had remained undamaged after all these years.
Once more the bird grew and grew till it was large enough for him to mount it.
As he did so , the bird spread its wings and flew , swiftly out across the sea in the direction of Japan.
Such was the willfulness of the man 's nature that he looked back and regretted all he had left behind.
He tried to stop the bird in vain.
The crane held on its way for thousands of miles across the ocean.
Then a storm came on , and the wonderful paper crane got damp , crumpled up , and fell into the sea.
person_1 fell with it.
Very much frightened at the thought of being drowned , he cried out loudly to person_0 to save him.
He looked round , but there was no ship in sight.
He swallowed a quantity of sea-water , which only increased his miserable plight.
While he was thus struggling to keep himself afloat , he saw a monstrous shark swimming towards him.
As it came nearer it opened its huge mouth ready to devour him.
person_1 was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near , and screamed out as loudly as ever he could to person_0 to come and rescue him.
Lo , and behold , person_1 was awakened by his own screams , to find that during his long prayer he had fallen asleep before the shrine , and that all his extraordinary and frightful adventures had been only a wild dream.
He was in a cold perspiration with fright , and utterly bewildered.
Suddenly a bright light came towards him , and in the light stood a messenger.
The messenger held a book in his hand , and spoke to person_1 : `` I am sent to you by person_0 , who in answer to your prayer , has permitted you in a dream to see the land of Perpetual person_2.
But you grew weary of living there , and begged to be allowed to return to your native land so that you might die.
person_0 , so that he might try you , allowed you to drop into the sea , and then sent a shark to swallow you up.
Your desire for death was not real , for even at that moment you cried out loudly and shouted for help"
`` It is also vain for you to wish to become a hermit , or to find the Elixir of person_2.
These things are not for such as you -- your life is not austere enough.
It is best for you to go back to your paternal home , and to live a good and industrious life.
Never neglect to keep the anniversaries of your ancestors , and make it your duty to provide for your children 's future.
Thus will you live to a good old age and be happy , but give up the vain desire to escape death , for no man can do that , and by this time you have surely found out that even when selfish desires are granted they do not bring happiness"
`` In this book I give you there are many precepts good for you to know -- if you study them , you will be guided in the way I have pointed out to you"
The angel disappeared as soon as he had finished speaking , and person_1 took the lesson to heart.
With the book in his hand he returned to his old home , and giving up all his old vain wishes , tried to live a good and useful life and to observe the lessons taught him in the book , and he and his house prospered henceforth"
There were once three brothers who had fallen deeper and deeper into poverty , and at last their need was so great that they had to endure hunger , and had nothing to eat or drink.
Then said they , `` We can not go on thus , we had better go into the world and seek our fortune"
They therefore set out , and had already walked over many a long road and many a blade of grass , but had not yet met with good luck.
One day they arrived in a great forest , and in the midst of it was a hill , and when they came nearer they saw that the hill was all silver.
Then spoke the eldest , `` Now I have found the good luck I wished for , and I desire nothing more"
He took as much of the silver as he could possibly carry , and then turned back and went home again.
But the two others said , `` We want something more from good luck than mere silver ,"
and did not touch it , but went onwards.
After they had walked for two days longer without stopping , they came to a hill which was all gold.
The second brother stopped , took thought with himself , and was undecided.
`` What shall I do ?"
said he ; `` shall I take for myself so much of this gold , that I have sufficient for all the rest of my life , or shall I go farther ?"
At length he made a decision , and putting as much into his pockets as would go in , said farewell to his brother , and went home.
But the third said , `` Silver and gold do not move me , I will not renounce my chance of fortune , perhaps something better still will be given me"
He journeyed onwards , and when he had walked for three days , he got into a forest which was still larger than the one before , and never would come to an end , and as he found nothing to eat or to drink , he was all but exhausted.
Then he climbed up a high tree to find out if up there he could see the end of the forest , but so far as his eye could pierce he saw nothing but the tops of trees.
Then he began to descend the tree again , but hunger tormented him , and he thought to himself , `` If I could but eat my fill once more !"
When he got down he saw with astonishment a table beneath the tree richly spread with food , the steam of which rose up to meet him.
`` This time ,"
said he , `` my wish has been fulfilled at the right moment"
And without inquiring who had brought the food , or who had cooked it , he approached the table , and ate with enjoyment until he had appeased his hunger.
When he was done , he thought , `` It would after all be a pity if the pretty little table-cloth were to be spoilt in the forest here ,"
and folded it up tidily and put it in his pocket.
Then he went onwards , and in the evening , when hunger once more made itself felt , he wanted to make a trial of his little cloth , and spread it out and said , `` I wish thee to be covered with good cheer again ,"
and scarcely had the wish crossed his lips than as many dishes with the most exquisite food on them stood on the table as there was room for.
`` Now I perceive ,"
said he , `` in what kitchen my cooking is done.
Thou shalt be dearer to me than the mountains of silver and gold"
For he saw plainly that it was a wishing-cloth.
The cloth , however , was still not enough to enable him to sit down quietly at home ; he preferred to wander about the world and pursue his fortune farther.
One night he met , in a lonely wood , a dusty , black charcoal-burner , who was burning charcoal there , and had some potatoes by the fire , on which he was going to make a meal.
`` Good evening , blackbird !"
said the youth.
`` How dost thou get on in thy solitude ?"
`` One day is like another ,"
replied the charcoal-burner , `` and every night potatoes ! Hast thou a mind to have some , and wilt thou be my guest ?"
`` Many thanks ,"
replied the traveler , `` I wo n't rob thee of thy supper ; thou didst not reckon on a visitor , but if thou wilt put up with what I have , thou shalt have an invitation"
`` Who is to prepare it for thee ?"
said the charcoal-burner.
`` I see that thou hast nothing with thee , and there is no one within a two hours ' walk who could give thee anything"
`` And yet there shall be a meal ,"
answered the youth , `` and better than any thou hast ever tasted"
Thereupon he brought his cloth out of his knapsack , spread it on the ground , and said , `` Little cloth , cover thyself ,"
and instantly boiled meat and baked meat stood there , and as hot as if it had just come out of the kitchen.
The charcoal-burner stared , but did not require much pressing ; he fell to , and thrust larger and larger mouthfuls into his black mouth.
When they had eaten everything , the charcoal-burner smiled contentedly , and said , `` Hark thee , thy table-cloth has my approval ; it would be a fine thing for me in this forest , where no one ever cooks me anything good.
I will propose an exchange to thee ; there in the corner hangs a soldier 's knapsack , which is certainly old and shabby , but in it lie concealed wonderful powers ; but , as I no longer use it , I will give it to thee for the table-cloth"
`` I must first know what these wonderful powers are ,"
answered the youth.
`` That will I tell thee ,"
replied the charcoal-burner ; `` every time thou tappest it with thy hand , a corporal comes with six men armed from head to foot , and they do whatsoever thou commandest them"
`` So far as I am concerned ,"
said the youth , `` if nothing else can be done , we will exchange ,"
and he gave the charcoal-burner the cloth , took the knapsack from the hook , put it on , and bade farewell.
When he had walked a while , he wished to make a trial of the magical powers of his knapsack and tapped it.
Immediately the seven warriors stepped up to him , and the corporal said , `` What does my lord and ruler wish for ?"
`` March with all speed to the charcoal-burner , and demand my wishing-cloth back"
They faced to the left , and it was not long before they brought what he required , and had taken it from the charcoal-burner without asking many questions.
The young man bade them retire , went onwards , and hoped fortune would shine yet more brightly on him.
By sunset he came to another charcoal-burner , who was making his supper ready by the fire.
`` If thou wilt eat some potatoes with salt , but with no dripping , come and sit down with me ,"
said the sooty fellow.
`` No , he replied , this time thou shalt be my guest ,"
and he spread out his cloth , which was instantly covered with the most beautiful dishes.
They ate and drank together , and enjoyed themselves heartily.
After the meal was over , the charcoal-burner said , `` Up there on that shelf lies a little old worn-out hat which has strange properties : when any one puts it on , and turns it round on his head , the cannons go off as if twelve were fired all together , and they shoot down everything so that no one can withstand them.
The hat is of no use to me , and I will willingly give it for thy table-cloth"
`` That suits me very well ,"
he answered , took the hat , put it on , and left his table-cloth behind him.
Hardly , however , had he walked away than he tapped on his knapsack , and his soldiers had to fetch the cloth back again.
`` One thing comes on the top of another ,"
thought he , `` and I feel as if my luck had not yet come to an end"
Neither had his thoughts deceived him.
After he had walked on for the whole of one day , he came to a third charcoal-burner , who like the previous ones , invited him to potatoes without dripping.
But he let him also dine with him from his wishing-cloth , and the charcoal-burner liked it so well , that at last he offered him a horn for it , which had very different properties from those of the hat.
When any one blew it all the walls and fortifications fell down , and all towns and villages became ruins.
He certainly gave the charcoal-burner the cloth for it , but he afterwards sent his soldiers to demand it back again , so that at length he had the knapsack , hat and horn , all three.
`` Now ,"
said he , `` I am a made man , and it is time for me to go home and see how my brothers are getting on"
When he reached home , his brothers had built themselves a handsome house with their silver and gold , and were living in clover.
He went to see them , but as he came in a ragged coat , with his shabby hat on his head , and his old knapsack on his back , they would not acknowledge him as their brother.
They mocked and said , `` Thou givest out that thou art our brother who despised silver and gold , and craved for something still better for himself.
He will come in his carriage in full splendor like a mighty king , not like a beggar ,"
and they drove him out of doors.
Then he fell into a rage , and tapped his knapsack until a hundred and fifty men stood before him armed from head to foot.
He commanded them to surround his brothers ' house , and two of them were to take hazel-sticks with them , and beat the two insolent men until they knew who he was.
A violent disturbance arose , people ran together , and wanted to lend the two some help in their need , but against the soldiers they could do nothing.
News of this at length came to the King , who was very angry , and ordered a captain to march out with his troop , and drive this disturber of the peace out of the town ; but the man with the knapsack soon got a greater body of men together , who repulsed the captain and his men , so that they were forced to retire with bloody noses.
The King said , `` This vagabond is not brought to order yet ,"
and next day sent a still larger troop against him , but they could do even less.
The youth set still more men against them , and in order to be done the sooner , he turned his hat twice round on his head , and heavy guns began to play , and the king 's men were beaten and put to flight.
`` And now ,"
said he , `` I will not make peace until the King gives me his daughter to wife , and I govern the whole kingdom in his name"
He caused this to be announced to the King , and the latter said to his daughter , `` Necessity is a hard nut to crack , what remains to me but to do what he desires ? If I want peace and to keep the crown on my head , I must give thee away"
So the wedding was celebrated , but the King 's daughter was vexed that her husband should be a common man , who wore a shabby hat , and put on an old knapsack.
She wished much to get rid of him , and night and day studied how she could accomplished this.
Then she thought to herself , `` Is it possible that his wonderful powers lie in the knapsack ?"
and she dissembled and caressed him , and when his heart was softened , she said , `` If thou wouldst but lay aside that ugly knapsack , it makes disfigures thee so , that I ca n't help being ashamed of thee"
`` Dear child ,"
said he , `` this knapsack is my greatest treasure ; as long as I have it , there is no power on earth that I am afraid of"
And he revealed to her the wonderful virtue with which it was endowed.
Then she threw herself in his arms as if she were going to kiss him , but dexterously took the knapsack off his shoulders , and ran away with it.
As soon as she was alone she tapped it , and commanded the warriors to seize their former master , and take him out of the royal palace.
They obeyed , and the false wife sent still more men after him , who were to drive him quite out of the country.
Then he would have been ruined if he had not had the little hat.
But his hands were scarcely at liberty before he turned it twice.
Immediately the cannon began to thunder , and struck down everything , and the King 's daughter herself was forced to come and beg for mercy.
As she entreated in such moving terms , and promised amendment , he allowed himself to be persuaded and granted her peace.
She behaved in a friendly manner to him , and acted as if she loved him very much , and after some time managed so to befool him , that he confided to her that even if someone got the knapsack into his power , he could do nothing against him so long as the old hat was still his.
When she knew the secret , she waited until he was asleep , and then she took the hat away from him , and had it thrown out into the street.
But the horn still remained to him , and in great anger he blew it with all his strength.
Instantly all walls , fortifications , towns , and villages , toppled down , and crushed the King and his daughter to death.
And had he not put down the horn and had blown just a little longer , everything would have been in ruins , and not one stone would have been left standing on another.
Then no one opposed him any longer , and he made himself King of the whole country"
Long , long ago , one bright autumn day in Japan , it happened , that a pink-faced monkey and a yellow crab were playing together along the bank of a river.
As they were running about , the crab found a rice - dumpling and the monkey a persimmon-seed.
The crab picked up the rice-dumpling and showed it to the monkey , saying : `` Look what a nice thing I have found !"
Then the monkey held up his persimmon-seed and said : `` I also have found something good ! Look !"
Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit , he had no use for the seed he had just found.
The persimmon-seed is as hard and uneatable as a stone.
He , therefore , in his greedy nature , felt very envious of the crab 's nice dumpling , and he proposed an exchange.
The crab naturally did not see why he should give up his prize for a hard stone-like seed , and would not consent to the monkey 's proposition.
Then the cunning monkey began to persuade the crab , saying : `` How unwise you are not to think of the future ! Your rice-dumpling can be eaten now , and is certainly much bigger than my seed ; but if you sow this seed in the ground it will soon grow and become a great tree in a few years , and bear an abundance of fine ripe persimmons year after year.
If only I could show it to you then with the yellow fruit hanging on its branches ! Of course , if you do n't believe me I shall sow it myself ; though I am sure , later on , you will be very sorry that you did not take my advice"
The simple-minded crab could not resist the monkey 's clever persuasion.
He at last gave in and consented to the monkey 's proposal , and the exchange was made.
The greedy monkey soon gobbled up the dumpling , and with great reluctance gave up the persimmon - seed to the crab.
He would have liked to keep that too , but he was afraid of making the crab angry and of being pinched by his sharp scissor-like claws.
They then separated , the monkey going home to his forest trees and the crab to his stones along the river-side.
As soon as the crab reached home he put the persimmon-seed in the ground as the monkey had told him.
In the following spring the crab was delighted to see the shoot of a young tree push its way up through the ground.
Each year it grew bigger , till at last it blossomed one spring , and in the following autumn bore some fine large persimmons.
Among the broad smooth green leaves the fruit hung like golden balls , and as they ripened they mellowed to a deep orange.
It was the little crab 's pleasure to go out day by day and sit in the sun and put out his long eyes in the same way as a snail puts out its horn , and watch the persimmons ripening to perfection.
`` How delicious they will be to eat !"
he said to himself.
At last , one day , he knew the persimmons must be quite ripe and he wanted very much to taste one.
He made several attempts to climb the tree , in the vain hope of reaching one of the beautiful persimmons hanging above him ; but he failed each time , for a crab 's legs are not made for climbing trees but only for running along the ground and over stones , both of which he can do most cleverly.
In his dilemma he thought of his old playmate the monkey , who , he knew , could climb trees better than any one else in the world.
He determined to ask the monkey to help him , and set out to find him.
Running crab-fashion up the stony river bank , over the pathways into the shadowy forest , the crab at last found the monkey taking an afternoon nap in his favorite pine-tree , with his tail curled tight around a branch to prevent him from falling off in his dreams.
He was soon wide awake , however , when he heard himself called , and eagerly listening to what the crab told him.
When he heard that the seed which he had long ago exchanged for a rice-dumpling had grown into a tree and was now bearing good fruit , he was delighted , for he at once devised a cunning plan which would give him all the persimmons for himself.
He consented to go with the crab to pick the fruit for him.
When they both reached the spot , the monkey was astonished to see what a fine tree had sprung from the seed , and with what a number of ripe persimmons the branches were loaded.
He quickly climbed the tree and began to pluck and eat , as fast as he could , one persimmon after another.
Each time he chose the best and ripest he could find , and went on eating till he could eat no more.
Not one would he give to the poor hungry crab waiting below , and when he had finished there was little but the hard , unripe fruit left.
You can imagine the feelings of the poor crab after waiting patiently , for so long as he had done , for the tree to grow and the fruit to ripen , when he saw the monkey devouring all the good persimmons.
He was so disappointed that he ran round and round the tree calling to the monkey to remember his promise.
The monkey at first took no notice of the crab 's complaints , but at last he picked out the hardest , greenest persimmon he could find and aimed it at the crab 's head.
The persimmon is as hard as stone when it is unripe.
The monkey 's missile struck home and the crab was sorely hurt by the blow.
Again and again , as fast as he could pick them , the monkey pulled off the hard persimmons and threw them at the defenseless crab till he dropped dead , covered with wounds all over his body.
There he lay a pitiful sight at the foot of the tree he had himself planted.
When the wicked monkey saw that he had killed the crab he ran away from the spot as fast as he could , in fear and trembling , like a coward as he was.
Now the crab had a son who had been playing with a friend not far from the spot where this sad work had taken place.
On the way home he came across his father dead , in a most dreadful condition -- his head was smashed and his shell broken in several places , and around his body lay the unripe persimmons which had done their deadly work.
At this dreadful sight the poor young crab sat down and wept.
But when he had wept for some time he told himself that this crying would do no good ; it was his duty to avenge his father 's murder , and this he determined to do.
He looked about for some clue which would lead him to discover the murderer.
Looking up at the tree he noticed that the best fruit had gone , and that all around lay bits of peel and numerous seeds strewn on the ground as well as the unripe persimmons which had evidently been thrown at his father.
Then he understood that the monkey was the murderer , for he now remembered that his father had once told him the story of the rice-dumpling and the persimmon-seed.
The young crab knew that monkeys liked persimmons above all other fruit , and he felt sure that his greed for the coveted fruit had been the cause of the old crab 's death.
Alas ! He at first thought of going to attack the monkey at once , for he burned with rage.
Second thoughts , however , told him that this was useless , for the monkey was an old and cunning animal and would be hard to overcome.
He must meet cunning with cunning and ask some of his friends to help him , for he knew it would be quite out of his power to kill him alone.
The young crab set out at once to call on the mortar , his father 's old friend , and told him of all that had happened.
He besought the mortar with tears to help him avenge his father 's death.
The mortar was very sorry when he heard the woful tale and promised at once to help the young crab punish the monkey to death.
He warned him that he must be very careful in what he did , for the monkey was a strong and cunning enemy.
The mortar now sent to fetch the bee and the chestnut -LRB- also the crab 's old friends -RRB- to consult them about the matter.
In a short time the bee and the chestnut arrived.
When they were told all the details of the old crab 's death and of the monkey 's wickedness and greed , they both gladly consented to help the young crab in his revenge.
After talking for a long time as to the ways and means of carrying out their plans they separated , and Mr.
Mortar went home with the young crab to help him bury his poor father.
While all this was taking place the monkey was congratulating himself -LRB- as the wicked often do before their punishment comes upon them -RRB- on all he had done so neatly.
He thought it quite a fine thing that he had robbed his friend of all his ripe persimmons and then that he had killed him.
Still , smile as hard as he might , he could not banish altogether the fear of the consequences should his evil deeds be discovered.
IF he were found out -LRB- and he told himself that this could not be for he had escaped unseen -RRB- the crab 's family would be sure to bear him hatred and seek to take revenge on him.
So he would not go out , and kept himself at home for several days.
He found this kind of life , however , extremely dull , accustomed as he was to the free life of the woods , and at last he said : `` No one knows that it was I who killed the crab ! I am sure that the old thing breathed his last before I left him.
Dead crabs have no mouths ! Who is there to tell that I am the murderer ? Since no one knows , what is the use of shutting myself up and brooding over the matter ? What is done can not be undone !"
With this he wandered out into the crab settlement and crept about as slyly as possible near the crab 's house and tried to hear the neighbors ' gossip round about.
He wanted to find out what the crabs were saving about their chief 's death , for the old crab had been the chief of the tribe.
But he heard nothing and said to himself : `` They are all such fools that they do n't know and do n't care who murdered their chief !"
Little did he know in his so-called `` monkey 's wisdom"
that this seeming unconcern was part of the young crab 's plan.
He purposely pretended not to know who killed his father , and also to believe that he had met his death through his own fault.
By this means he could the better keep secret the revenge on the monkey , which he was meditating.
So the monkey returned home from his walk quite content.
He told himself he had nothing now to fear.
One fine day , when the monkey was sitting at home , he was surprised by the appearance of a messenger from the young crab.
While he was wondering what this might mean , the messenger bowed before him and said : `` I have been sent by my master to inform you that his father died the other day in falling from a persimmon tree while trying to climb the tree after fruit.
This , being the seventh day , is the first anniversary after his death , and my master has prepared a little festival in his father 's honor , and bids you come to participate in it as you were one of his best friends.
My master hopes you will honor his house with your kind visit"
When the monkey heard these words he rejoiced in his inmost heart , for all his fears of being suspected were now at rest.
He could not guess that a plot had just been set in motion against him.
He pretended to be very surprised at the news of the crab 's death , and said : `` I am , indeed , very sorry to hear of your chief 's death.
We were great friends as you know.
I remember that we once exchanged a rice - dumpling for a persimmon-seed.
It grieves me much to think that that seed was in the end the cause of his death.
I accept your kind invitation with many thanks.
I shall be delighted to do honor to my poor old friend !"
And he screwed some false tears from his eyes.
The messenger laughed inwardly and thought , `` The wicked monkey is now dropping false tears , but within a short time he shall shed real ones"
But aloud he thanked the monkey politely and went home.
When he had gone , the wicked monkey laughed aloud at what he thought was the young crab 's innocence , and without the least feeling began to look forward to the feast to be held that day in honor of the dead crab , to which he had been invited.
He changed his dress and set out solemnly to visit the young crab.
He found all the members of the crab 's family and his relatives waiting to receive and welcome him.
As soon as the bows of meeting were over they led him to a hall.
Here the young chief mourner came to receive him.
Expressions of condolence and thanks were exchanged between them , and then they all sat down to a luxurious feast and entertained the monkey as the guest of honor.
The feast over , he was next invited to the tea-ceremony room to drink a cup of tea.
When the young crab had conducted the monkey to the tearoom he left him and retired.
Time passed and still he did not return.
At last the monkey became impatient.
He said to himself : `` This tea ceremony is always a very slow affair.
I am tired of waiting so long.
I am very thirsty after drinking so much sake at the dinner !"
He then approached the charcoal fire-place and began to pour out some hot water from the kettle boiling there , when something burst out from the ashes with a great pop and hit the monkey right in the neck.
It was the chestnut , one of the crab 's friends , who had hidden himself in the fireplace.
The monkey , taken by surprise , jumped backward , and then started to run out of the room.
The bee , who was hiding outside the screens , now flew out and stung him on the cheek.
The monkey was in great pain , his neck was burned by the chestnut and his face badly stung by the bee , but he ran on screaming and chattering with rage.
Now the stone mortar had hidden himself with several other stones on the top of the crab 's gate , and as the monkey ran underneath , the mortar and all fell down on the top of the monkey 's head.
Was it possible for the monkey to bear the weight of the mortar falling on him from the top of the gate ? He lay crushed and in great pain , quite unable to get up.
As he lay there helpless the young crab came up , and , holding his great claw scissors over the monkey , he said : `` Do you now remember that you murdered my father ?"
`` Then you -- are -- my -- enemy ?"
gasped the monkey brokenly.
`` Of course ,"
said the young crab.
`` It -- was -- your -- father 's -- fault -- not -- mine !"
gasped the unrepentant monkey.
`` Can you still lie ? I will soon put an end to your breath !"
and with that he cut off the monkey 's head with his pitcher claws.
Thus the wicked monkey met his well-merited punishment , and the young crab avenged his father 's death.
This is the end of the story of the monkey , the crab , and the persimmon-seed"
Once upon a time there was a person_0 who had seven beautiful daughters.
They were all good girls ; but the youngest , named Balna , was more clever than the rest.
The person_0 's wife died when they were quite little children , so these seven poor person_3sses were left with no mother to take care of them.
The person_0 's daughters took it by turns to cook their father 's dinner every day , whilst he was absent deliberating with his Ministers on the affairs of the nation.
About this time the Prudhan died , leaving a widow and one daughter ; and every day , every day , when the seven person_3sses were preparing their father 's dinner , the Prudhan 's widow and daughter would come and beg for a little fire from the hearth.
Then Balna used to say to her sisters , `` Send that woman away ; send her away.
Let her get the fire at her own house.
What does she want with ours ? If we allow her to come here , we shall suffer for it some day"
But the other sisters would answer , `` Be quiet , Balna ; why must you always be quarrelling with this poor woman ? Let her take some fire if she likes"
Then the Prudhan 's widow used to go to the hearth and take a few sticks from it ; and whilst no one was looking , she would quickly throw some mud into the midst of the dishes which were being prepared for the person_0 's dinner.
Now the person_0 was very fond of his daughters.
Ever since their mother 's death they had cooked his dinner with their own hands , in order to avoid the danger of his being poisoned by his enemies.
So , when he found the mud mixed up with his dinner , he thought it must arise from their carelessness , as it did not seem likely that any one should have put mud there on purpose ; but being very kind he did not like to reprove them for it , although this spoiling of the curry was repeated many successive days.
At last , one day , he determined to hide , and watch his daughters cooking , and see how it all happened ; so he went into the next room , and watched them through a hole in the wall.
There he saw his seven daughters carefully washing the rice and preparing the curry , and as each dish was completed , they put it by the fire ready to be cooked.
Next he noticed the Prudhan 's widow come to the door , and beg for a few sticks from the fire to cook her dinner with.
Balna turned to her , angrily , and said , `` Why do n't you keep fuel in your own house , and not come here every day and take ours ? Sisters , do n't give this woman any more wood ; let her buy it for herself"
Then the eldest sister answered , `` Balna , let the poor woman take the wood and the fire ; she does us no harm"
But Balna replied , `` If you let her come here so often , maybe she will do us some harm , and make us sorry for it , some day"
The person_0 then saw the Prudhan 's widow go to the place where all his dinner was nicely prepared , and , as she took the wood , she threw a little mud into each of the dishes.
At this he was very angry , and sent to have the woman seized and brought before him.
But when the widow came , she told him that she had played this trick because she wanted to gain an audience with him ; and she spoke so cleverly , and pleased him so well with her cunning words , that instead of punishing her , the person_0 married her , and made her his Ranee , and she and her daughter came to live in the palace.
Now the new Ranee hated the seven poor person_3sses , and wanted to get them , if possible , out of the way , in order that her daughter might have all their riches , and live in the palace as person_3ss in their place ; and instead of being grateful to them for their kindness to her , she did all she could to make them miserable.
She gave them nothing but bread to eat , and very little of that , and very little water to drink ; so these seven poor little person_3sses , who had been accustomed to have everything comfortable about them , and good food and good clothes all their lives long , were very miserable and unhappy ; and they used to go out every day and sit by their dead mother 's tomb and cry -- and say : `` Oh mother , mother , can not you see your poor children , how unhappy we are , and how we are starved by our cruel step-mother ?"
One day , whilst they were thus sobbing and crying , lo and behold ! a beautiful pomelo tree grew up out of the grave , covered with fresh ripe pomeloes , and the children satisfied their hunger by eating some of the fruit , and every day after this , instead of trying to eat the bad dinner their step-mother provided for them , they used to go out to their mother 's grave and eat the pomeloes which grew there on the beautiful tree.
Then the Ranee said to her daughter , `` I can not tell how it is , every day those seven girls say they do n't want any dinner , and wo n't eat any ; and yet they never grow thin nor look ill ; they look better than you do.
I can not tell how it is"
And she bade her watch the seven person_3sses , and see if any one gave them anything to eat.
So next day , when the person_3sses went to their mother 's grave , and were eating the beautiful pomeloes , the Prudhan 's daughter followed them , and saw them gathering the fruit.
Then Balna said to her sisters , `` Do you not see that girl watching us ? Let us drive her away , or hide the pomeloes , else she will go and tell her mother all about it , and that will be very bad for us"
But the other sisters said , `` Oh no , do not be unkind , Balna.
The girl would never be so cruel as to tell her mother.
Let us rather invite her to come and have some of the fruit"
And calling her to them , they gave her one of the pomeloes.
No sooner had she eaten it , however , than the Prudhan 's daughter went home and said to her mother , `` I do not wonder the seven person_3sses will not eat the dinner you prepare for them , for by their mother 's grave there grows a beautiful pomelo tree , and they go there every day and eat the pomeloes.
I ate one , and it was the nicest I have ever tasted"
The cruel Ranee was much vexed at hearing this , and all next day she stayed in her room , and told the person_0 that she had a very bad headache.
The person_0 was deeply grieved , and said to his wife , `` What can I do for you ?"
She answered , `` There is only one thing that will make my headache well.
By your dead wife 's tomb there grows a fine pomelo tree ; you must bring that here , and boil it , root and branch , and put a little of the water in which it has been boiled , on my forehead , and that will cure my headache"
So the person_0 sent his servants , and had the beautiful pomelo tree pulled up by the roots , and did as the Ranee desired ; and when some of the water , in which it had been boiled , was put on her forehead , she said her headache was gone and she felt quite well.
Next day , when the seven person_3sses went as usual to the grave of their mother , the pomelo tree had disappeared.
Then they all began to cry very bitterly.
Now there was by the Ranee 's tomb a small tank , and as they were crying they saw that the tank was filled with a rich cream-like substance , which quickly hardened into a thick white cake.
At seeing this all the person_3sses were very glad , and they ate some of the cake , and liked it ; and next day the same thing happened , and so it went on for many days.
Every morning the person_3sses went to their mother 's grave , and found the little tank filled with the nourishing cream-like cake.
Then the cruel step-mother said to her daughter : `` I can not tell how it is , I have had the pomelo tree which used to grow by the Ranee 's grave destroyed , and yet the person_3sses grow no thinner , nor look more sad , though they never eat the dinner I give them.
I can not tell how it is !"
And her daughter said , `` I will watch"
Next day , while the person_3sses were eating the cream cake , who should come by but their step-mother 's daughter.
Balna saw her first , and said , `` See , sisters , there comes that girl again.
Let us sit round the edge of the tank and not allow her to see it , for if we give her some of our cake , she will go and tell her mother ; and that will be very unfortunate for us"
The other sisters , however , thought Balna unnecessarily suspicious , and instead of following her advice , they gave the Prudhan 's daughter some of the cake , and she went home and told her mother all about it.
The Ranee , on hearing how well the person_3sses fared , was exceedingly angry , and sent her servants to pull down the dead Ranee 's tomb , and fill the little tank with the ruins.
And not content with this , she next day pretended to be very , very ill -- in fact , at the point of death -- and when the person_0 was much grieved , and asked her whether it was in his power to procure her any remedy , she said to him : `` Only one thing can save my life , but I know you will not do it"
He replied , `` Yes , whatever it is , I will do it"
She then said , `` To save my life , you must kill the seven daughters of your first wife , and put some of their blood on my forehead and on the palms of my hands , and their death will be my life"
At these words the person_0 was very sorrowful ; but because he feared to break his word , he went out with a heavy heart to find his daughters.
He found them crying by the ruins of their mother 's grave.
Then , feeling he could not kill them , the person_0 spoke kindly to them , and told them to come out into the jungle with him ; and there he made a fire and cooked some rice , and gave it to them.
But in the afternoon , it being very hot , the seven person_3sses all fell asleep , and when he saw they were fast asleep , the person_0 , their father , stole away and left them -LRB- for he feared his wife -RRB- , saying to himself : `` It is better my poor daughters should die here , than be killed by their step-mother"
He then shot a deer , and returning home , put some of its blood on the forehead and hands of the Ranee , and she thought then that he had really killed the person_3sses , and said she felt quite well.
Meantime the seven person_3sses awoke , and when they found themselves all alone in the thick jungle they were much frightened , and began to call out as loud as they could , in hopes of making their father hear ; but he was by that time far away , and would not have been able to hear them even had their voices been as loud as thunder.
It so happened that this very day the seven young sons of a neighbouring person_0 chanced to be hunting in that same jungle , and as they were returning home , after the day 's sport was over , the youngest person_3 said to his brothers `` Stop , I think I hear some one crying and calling out.
Do you not hear voices ? Let us go in the direction of the sound , and find out what it is"
So the seven person_3s rode through the wood until they came to the place where the seven person_3sses sat crying and wringing their hands.
At the sight of them the young person_3s were very much astonished , and still more so on learning their story ; and they settled that each should take one of these poor forlorn ladies home with him , and marry her.
So the first and eldest person_3 took the eldest person_3ss home with him , and married her.
And the second took the second ; And the third took the third ; And the fourth took the fourth ; And the fifth took the fifth ; And the sixth took the sixth ; And the seventh , and the handsomest of all , took the beautiful Balna.
And when they got to their own land , there was great rejoicing throughout the kingdom , at the marriage of the seven young person_3s to seven such beautiful person_3sses.
About a year after this Balna had a little son , and his uncles and aunts were so fond of the boy that it was as if he had seven fathers and seven mothers.
None of the other person_3s and person_3sses had any children , so the son of the seventh person_3 and Balna was acknowledged their heir by all the rest.
They had thus lived very happily for some time , when one fine day the seventh person_3 -LRB- Balna 's husband -RRB- said he would go out hunting , and away he went ; and they waited long for him , but he never came back.
Then his six brothers said they would go and see what had become of him ; and they went away , but they also did not return.
And the seven person_3sses grieved very much , for they feared that their kind husbands must have been killed.
One day , not long after this had happened , as Balna was rocking her baby 's cradle , and whilst her sisters were working in the room below , there came to the palace door a man in a long black dress , who said that he was a Fakir , and came to beg.
The servants said to him , `` You can not go into the palace -- the person_0 's sons have all gone away ; we think they must be dead , and their widows can not be interrupted by your begging"
But he said , `` I am a holy man , you must let me in"
Then the stupid servants let him walk through the palace , but they did not know that this was no Fakir , but a wicked person_2 named Punchkin.
Punchkin Fakir wandered through the palace , and saw many beautiful things there , till at last he reached the room where Balna sat singing beside her little boy 's cradle.
The person_2 thought her more beautiful than all the other beautiful things he had seen , insomuch that he asked her to go home with him and to marry him.
But she said , `` My husband , I fear , is dead , but my little boy is still quite young ; I will stay here and teach him to grow up a clever man , and when he is grown up he shall go out into the world , and try and learn tidings of his father.
Heaven forbid that I should ever leave him , or marry you"
At these words the person_2 was very angry , and turned her into a little black dog , and led her away ; saying , `` Since you will not come with me of your own free will , I will make you"
So the poor person_3ss was dragged away , without any power of effecting an escape , or of letting her sisters know what had become of her.
As Punchkin passed through the palace gate the servants said to him , `` Where did you get that pretty little dog ?"
And he answered , `` One of the person_3sses gave it to me as a present"
At hearing which they let him go without further questioning.
Soon after this , the six elder person_3sses heard the little baby , their nephew , begin to cry , and when they went upstairs they were much surprised to find him all alone , and Balna nowhere to be seen.
Then they questioned the servants , and when they heard of the Fakir and the little black dog , they guessed what had happened , and sent in every direction seeking them , but neither the Fakir nor the dog were to be found.
What could six poor women do ? They gave up all hopes of ever seeing their kind husbands , and their sister , and her husband , again , and devoted themselves thenceforward to teaching and taking care of their little nephew.
Thus time went on , till Balna 's son was fourteen years old.
Then , one day , his aunts told him the history of the family ; and no sooner did he hear it , than he was seized with a great desire to go in search of his father and mother and uncles , and if he could find them alive to bring them home again.
His aunts , on learning his determination , were much alarmed and tried to dissuade him , saying , `` We have lost our husbands , and our sister and her husband , and you are now our sole hope ; if you go away , what shall we do ?"
But he replied , `` I pray you not to be discouraged ; I will return soon , and if it is possible bring my father and mother and uncles with me"
So he set out on his travels ; but for some months he could learn nothing to help him in his search.
At last , after he had journeyed many hundreds of weary miles , and become almost hopeless of ever hearing anything further of his parents , he one day came to a country that seemed full of stones , and rocks , and trees , and there he saw a large palace with a high tower ; hard by which was a Malee 's little house.
As he was looking about , the Malee 's wife saw him , and ran out of the house and said , `` My dear boy , who are you that dare venture to this dangerous place ?"
He answered , `` I am a person_0 's son , and I come in search of my father , and my uncles , and my mother whom a wicked enchanter bewitched"
Then the Malee 's wife said , `` This country and this palace belong to a great enchanter ; he is all powerful , and if any one displeases him , he can turn them into stones and trees.
All the rocks and trees you see here were living people once , and the person_2 turned them to what they now are.
Some time ago a person_0 's son came here , and shortly afterwards came his six brothers , and they were all turned into stones and trees ; and these are not the only unfortunate ones , for up in that tower lives a beautiful person_3ss , whom the person_2 has kept prisoner there for twelve years , because she hates him and will not marry him"
Then the little person_3 thought , `` These must be my parents and my uncles.
I have found what I seek at last"
So he told his story to the Malee 's wife , and begged her to help him to remain in that place awhile and inquire further concerning the unhappy people she mentioned ; and she promised to befriend him , and advised his disguising himself lest the person_2 should see him , and turn him likewise into stone.
To this the person_3 agreed.
So the Malee 's wife dressed him up in a saree , and pretended that he was her daughter.
One day , not long after this , as the person_2 was walking in his garden he saw the little girl -LRB- as he thought -RRB- playing about , and asked her who she was.
She told him she was the Malee 's daughter , and the person_2 said , `` You are a pretty little girl , and to-morrow you shall take a present of flowers from me to the beautiful lady who lives in the tower"
The young person_3 was much delighted at hearing this , and went immediately to inform the Malee 's wife ; after consultation with whom he determined that it would be more safe for him to retain his disguise , and trust to the chance of a favourable opportunity for establishing some communication with his mother , if it were indeed she.
Now it happened that at Balna 's marriage her husband had given her a small gold ring on which her name was engraved , and she had put it on her little son 's finger when he was a baby , and afterwards when he was older his aunts had had it enlarged for him , so that he was still able to wear it.
The Malee 's wife advised him to fasten the well-known treasure to one of the bouquets he presented to his mother , and trust to her recognizing it.
This was not to be done without difficulty , as such a strict watch was kept over the poor person_3ss -LRB- for fear of her ever establishing communication with her friends -RRB- , that though the supposed Malee 's daughter was permitted to take her flowers every day , the person_2 or one of his slaves was always in the room at the time.
At last one day , however , opportunity favored him , and when no one was looking , the boy tied the ring to a nosegay , and threw it at Balna 's feet.
It fell with a clang on the floor , and Balna , looking to see what made the strange sound , found the little ring tied to the flowers.
On recognizing it , she at once believed the story her son told her of his long search , and begged him to advise her as to what she had better do ; at the same time entreating him on no account to endanger his life by trying to rescue her.
She told him that for twelve long years the person_2 had kept her shut up in the tower because she refused to marry him , and she was so closely guarded that she saw no hope of release.
Now Balna 's son was a bright , clever boy , so he said , `` Do not fear , dear mother ; the first thing to do is to discover how far the person_2 's power extends , in order that we may be able to liberate my father and uncles , whom he has imprisoned in the form of rocks and trees.
You have spoken to him angrily for twelve long years ; now rather speak kindly.
Tell him you have given up all hopes of again seeing the husband you have so long mourned , and say you are willing to marry him.
Then endeavor to find out what his power consists in , and whether he is immortal , or can be put to death"
Balna determined to take her son 's advice ; and the next day sent for Punchkin , and spoke to him as had been suggested.
The person_2 , greatly delighted , begged her to allow the wedding to take place as soon as possible.
But she told him that before she married him he must allow her a little more time , in which she might make his acquaintance , and that , after being enemies so long , their friendship could but strengthen by degrees.
`` And do tell me ,"
she said , `` are you quite immortal ? Can death never touch you ? And are you too great an enchanter ever to feel human suffering ?"
`` Why do you ask ?"
said he.
`` Because ,"
she replied , `` if I am to be your wife , I would fain know all about you , in order , if any calamity threatens you , to overcome , or if possible to avert it"
`` It is true ,"
he added , `` that I am not as others.
Far , far away , hundreds of thousands of miles from this , there lies a desolate country covered with thick jungle.
In the midst of the jungle grows a circle of palm trees , and in the center of the circle stand six chattees full of water , piled one above another : below the sixth chattee is a small cage which contains a little green parrot ; on the life of the parrot depends my life ; and if the parrot is killed I must die.
It is , however ,"
he added , `` impossible that the parrot should sustain any injury , both on account of the inaccessibility of the country , and because , by my appointment , many thousand genii surround the palm trees , and kill all who approach the place"
Balna told her son what Punchkin had said ; but at the same time implored him to give up all idea of getting the parrot.
The person_3 , however , replied , `` Mother , unless I can get hold of that parrot , you , and my father , and uncles , can not be liberated : be not afraid , I will shortly return.
Do you , meantime , keep the person_2 in good humor -- still putting off your marriage with him on various pretexts ; and before he finds out the cause of delay , I will be here"
So saying , he went away.
Many , many weary miles did he travel , till at last he came to a thick jungle ; and , being very tired , sat down under a tree and fell asleep.
He was awakened by a soft rustling sound , and looking about him , saw a large serpent which was making its way to an eagle 's nest built in the tree under which he lay , and in the nest were two young eagles.
The person_3 seeing the danger of the young birds , drew his sword , and killed the serpent ; at the same moment a rushing sound was heard in the air , and the two old eagles , who had been out hunting for food for their young ones , returned.
They quickly saw the dead serpent and the young person_3 standing over it ; and the old mother eagle said to him , `` Dear boy , for many years all our young ones have been devoured by that cruel serpent ; you have now saved the lives of our children ; whenever you are in need , therefore , send to us and we will help you ; and as for these little eagles , take them , and let them be your servants"
At this the person_3 was very glad , and the two eaglets crossed their wings , on which he mounted ; and they carried him far , far away over the thick jungles , until he came to the place where grew the circle of palm trees , in the midst of which stood the six chattees full of water.
It was the middle of the day , and the heat was very great.
All round the trees were the genii fast asleep ; nevertheless , there were such countless thousands of them , that it would have been quite impossible for any one to walk through their ranks to the place ; down swooped the strong-winged eaglets -- down jumped the person_3 ; in an instant he had overthrown the six chattees full of water , and seized the little green parrot , which he rolled up in his cloak ; while , as he mounted again into the air , all the genii below awoke , and finding their treasure gone , set up a wild and melancholy howl.
Away , away flew the little eagles , till they came to their home in the great tree ; then the person_3 said to the old eagles , `` Take back your little ones ; they have done me good service ; if ever again I stand in need of help , I will not fail to come to you"
He then continued his journey on foot till he arrived once more at the person_2 's palace , where he sat down at the door and began playing with the parrot.
Punchkin saw him , and came to him quickly , and said , `` My boy , where did you get that parrot ? Give it to me , I pray you"
But the person_3 answered , `` Oh no , I can not give away my parrot , it is a great pet of mine ; I have had it many years"
Then the person_2 said , `` If it is an old favorite , I can understand your not caring to give it away ; but come what will you sell it for ?"
`` Sir ,"
replied the person_3 , `` I will not sell my parrot"
Then Punchkin got frightened , and said , `` Anything , anything ; name what price you will , and it shall be yours"
The person_3 answered , `` Let the seven person_0 's sons whom you turned into rocks and trees be instantly liberated"
`` It is done as you desire ,"
said the person_2 , `` only give me my parrot"
And with that , by a stroke of his wand , Balna 's husband and his brothers resumed their natural shapes.
`` Now , give me my parrot ,"
repeated Punchkin.
`` Not so fast , my master ,"
rejoined the person_3 ; `` I must first beg that you will restore to life all whom you have thus imprisoned"
The person_2 immediately waved his wand again ; and , whilst he cried , in an imploring voice , `` Give me my parrot !"
the whole garden became suddenly alive : where rocks , and stones , and trees had been before , stood person_0s , and Punts , and Sirdars , and mighty men on prancing horses , and jewelled pages , and troops of armed attendants.
`` Give me my parrot !"
cried Punchkin.
Then the boy took hold of the parrot , and tore off one of its wings ; and as he did so the person_2 's right arm fell off.
Punchkin then stretched out his left arm , crying , `` Give me my parrot !"
The person_3 pulled off the parrot 's second wing , and the person_2 's left arm tumbled off.
`` Give me my parrot !"
cried he , and fell on his knees.
The person_3 pulled off the parrot 's right leg , the person_2 's right leg fell off : the person_3 pulled off the parrot 's left leg , down fell the person_2 's left.
Nothing remained of him save the limbless body and the head ; but still he rolled his eyes , and cried , `` Give me my parrot !"
`` Take your parrot , then ,"
cried the boy , and with that he wrung the bird 's neck , and threw it at the person_2 ; and , as he did so , Punchkin 's head twisted round , and , with a fearful groan , he died ! Then they let Balna out of the tower ; and she , her son , and the seven person_3s went to their own country , and lived very happily ever afterwards.
And as to the rest of the world , every one went to his own house"
A young drummer went out quite alone one evening into the country , and came to a lake on the shore of which he perceived three pieces of white linen lying.
`` What fine linen ,"
said he , and put one piece in his pocket.
He returned home , thought no more of what he had found , and went to bed.
Just as he was going to sleep , it seemed to him as if some one was saying his name.
He listened , and was aware of a soft voice which cried to him , `` Drummer , drummer , wake up !"
As it was a dark night he could see no one , but it appeared to him that a figure was hovering about his bed.
`` What do you want ?"
he asked.
`` Give me back my dress ,"
answered the voice , `` that you took away from me last evening by the lake"
`` You shall have it back again ,"
said the drummer , `` if you will tell me who you are"
`` Ah ,"
replied the voice , `` I am the daughter of a mighty person_0 ; but I have fallen into the power of a witch , and am shut up on the glass-mountain.
I have to bathe in the lake every day with my two sisters , but I can not fly back again without my dress.
My sisters have gone away , but I have been forced to stay behind.
I entreat you to give me my dress back"
`` Be easy , poor child ,"
said the drummer.
`` I will willingly give it back to you"
He took it out of his pocket , and reached it to her in the dark.
She snatched it in haste , and wanted to go away with it.
`` Stop a moment , perhaps I can help you"
`` You can only help me by ascending the glass-mountain , and freeing me from the power of the witch.
But you can not come to the glass-mountain , and indeed if you were quite close to it you could not ascend it"
`` When I want to do a thing I always can do it ,"
said the drummer ; `` I am sorry for you , and have no fear of anything.
But I do not know the way which leads to the glass-mountain"
`` The road goes through the great forest , in which the man-eaters live ,"
she answered , `` and more than that , I dare not tell you"
And then he heard her wings quiver , as she flew away.
By daybreak the drummer arose , buckled on his drum , and went without fear straight into the forest.
After he had walked for a while without seeing any giants , he thought to himself , `` I must waken up the sluggards ,"
and he hung his drum before him , and beat such a reveille that the birds flew out of the trees with loud cries.
It was not long before a giant who had been lying sleeping among the grass , rose up , and was as tall as a fir-tree.
`` Wretch !"
cried he ; `` what art thou drumming here for , and wakening me out of my best sleep ?"
`` I am drumming ,"
he replied , `` because I want to show the way to many thousands who are following me"
`` What do they want in my forest ?"
demanded the giant.
`` They want to put an end to thee , and cleanse the forest of such a monster as thou art !"
`` Oho !"
said the giant , `` I will trample you all to death like so many ants"
`` Dost thou think thou canst do anything against us ?"
said the drummer ; `` if thou stoopest to take hold of one , he will jump away and hide himself ; but when thou art lying down and sleeping , they will come forth from every thicket , and creep up to thee.
Every one of them has a hammer of steel in his belt , and with that they will beat in thy skull"
The giant grew angry and thought , `` If I meddle with the crafty folk , it might turn out badly for me.
I can strangle wolves and bears , but I can not protect myself from these earth-worms"
`` Listen , little fellow ,"
said he ; `` go back again , and I will promise you that for the future I will leave you and your comrades in peace , and if there is anything else you wish for , tell me , for I am quite willing to do something to please you"
`` Thou hast long legs ,"
said the drummer , `` and canst run quicker than I ; carry me to the glass-mountain , and I will give my followers a signal to go back , and they shall leave thee in peace this time"
`` Come here , worm ,"
said the giant ; `` seat thyself on my shoulder , I will carry thee where thou wishest to be"
The giant lifted him up , and the drummer began to beat his drum up aloft to his heart 's delight.
The giant thought , `` That is the signal for the other people to turn back"
After a while , a second giant was standing in the road , who took the drummer from the first , and stuck him in his button-hole.
The drummer laid hold of the button , which was as large as a dish , held on by it , and looked merrily around.
Then they came to a third giant , who took him out of the button-hole , and set him on the rim of his hat.
Then the drummer walked backwards and forwards up above , and looked over the trees , and when he perceived a mountain in the blue distance , he thought , `` That must be the glass-mountain ,"
and so it was.
The giant only made two steps more , and they reached the foot of the mountain , where the giant put him down.
The drummer demanded to be put on the summit of the glass-mountain , but the giant shook his head , growled something in his beard , and went back into the forest.
And now the poor drummer was standing before the mountain , which was as high as if three mountains were piled on each other , and at the same time as smooth as a looking-glass , and did not know how to get up it.
He began to climb , but that was useless , for he always slipped back again.
`` If one was a bird now ,"
thought he ; but what was the good of wishing , no wings grew for him.
Whilst he was standing thus , not knowing what to do , he saw , not far from him , two men who were struggling fiercely together.
He went up to them and saw that they were disputing about a saddle which was lying on the ground before them , and which both of them wanted to have.
`` What fools you are ,"
said he , `` to quarrel about a saddle , when you have not a horse for it !"
`` The saddle is worth fighting about ,"
answered one of the men ; `` whosoever sits on it , and wishes himself in any place , even if it should be the very end of the earth , gets there the instant he has uttered the wish.
The saddle belongs to us in common.
It is my turn to ride on it , but that other man will not let me do it"
`` I will soon decide the quarrel ,"
said the drummer , and he went to a short distance and stuck a white rod in the ground.
Then he came back and said , `` Now run to the goal , and whoever gets there first , shall ride first"
Both put themselves into a trot ; but hardly had they gone a couple of steps before the drummer swung himself on the saddle , wished himself on the glass-mountain , and before any one could turn round , he was there.
On the top of the mountain was a plain ; there stood an old stone house , and in front of the house lay a great fish-pond , but behind it was a dark forest.
He saw neither men nor animals , everything was quiet ; only the wind rustled amongst the trees , and the clouds moved by quite close above his head.
He went to the door and knocked.
When he had knocked for the third time , an old woman with a brown face and red eyes opened the door.
She had spectacles on her long nose , and looked sharply at him ; then she asked what he wanted.
`` Entrance , food , and a bed for the night ,"
replied the drummer.
`` That thou shalt have ,"
said the old woman , `` if thou wilt perform three services in return"
`` Why not ?"
he answered , `` I am not afraid of any kind of work , however hard it may be"
The old woman let him go in , and gave him some food and a good bed at night.
The next morning when he had had his sleep out , she took a thimble from her wrinkled finger , reached it to the drummer , and said , `` Go to work now , and empty out the pond with this thimble ; but thou must have it done before night , and must have sought out all the fishes which are in the water and laid them side by side , according to their kind and size"
`` That is strange work ,"
said the drummer , but he went to the pond , and began to empty it.
He baled the whole morning ; but what can any one do to a great lake with a thimble , even if he were to bale for a thousand years ? When it was noon , he thought , `` It is all useless , and whether I work or not it will come to the same thing"
So he gave it up and sat down.
Then came a maiden out of the house who set a little basket with food before him , and said , `` What ails thee , that thou sittest so sadly here ?"
He looked at her , and saw that she was wondrously beautiful.
`` Ah ,"
said he , `` I can not finish the first piece of work , how will it be with the others ? I came forth to seek a king 's daughter who is said to dwell here , but I have not found her , and I will go farther"
`` Stay here ,"
said the maiden , `` I will help thee out of thy difficulty.
Thou art tired , lay thy head in my lap , and sleep.
When thou awakest again , thy work will be done"
The drummer did not need to be told that twice.
As soon as his eyes were shut , she turned a wishing-ring and said , `` Rise , water.
Fishes , come out"
Instantly the water rose on high like a white mist , and moved away with the other clouds , and the fishes sprang on the shore and laid themselves side by side each according to his size and kind.
When the drummer awoke , he saw with amazement that all was done.
But the maiden said , `` One of the fish is not lying with those of its own kind , but quite alone ; when the old woman comes to-night and sees that all she demanded has been done , she will ask thee , ` What is this fish lying alone for ? ' Then throw the fish in her face , and say , ` This one shall be for thee , old witch.
'"
In the evening the witch came , and when she had put this question , he threw the fish in her face.
She behaved as if she did not remark it , and said nothing , but looked at him with malicious eyes.
Next morning she said , `` Yesterday it was too easy for thee , I must give thee harder work.
To-day thou must hew down the whole of the forest , split the wood into logs , and pile them up , and everything must be finished by the evening"
She gave him an axe , a mallet , and two wedges.
But the axe was made of lead , and the mallet and wedges were of tin.
When he began to cut , the edge of the axe turned back , and the mallet and wedges were beaten out of shape.
He did not know how to manage , but at mid-day the maiden came once more with his dinner and comforted him.
`` Lay thy head on my lap ,"
said she , `` and sleep ; when thou awakest , thy work will be done"
She turned her wishing-ring , and in an instant the whole forest fell down with a crash , the wood split , and arranged itself in heaps , and it seemed just as if unseen giants were finishing the work.
When he awoke , the maiden said , `` Dost thou see that the wood is piled up and arranged , one bough alone remains ; but when the old woman comes this evening and asks thee about that bough , give her a blow with it , and say , ` That is for thee , thou witch.
'"
The old woman came , `` There thou seest how easy the work was !"
said she ; `` but for whom hast thou left that bough which is lying there still ?"
`` For thee , thou witch ,"
he replied , and gave her a blow with it.
But she pretended not to feel it , laughed scornfully , and said , `` Early to-morrow morning thou shalt arrange all the wood in one heap , set fire to it , and burn it"
He rose at break of day , and began to pick up the wood , but how can a single man get a whole forest together ? The work made no progress.
The maiden , however , did not desert him in his need.
She brought him his food at noon , and when he had eaten , he laid his head on her lap , and went to sleep.
When he awoke , the entire pile of wood was burning in one enormous flame , which stretched its tongues out into the sky.
`` Listen to me ,"
said the maiden , `` when the witch comes , she will give thee all kinds of orders ; do whatever she asks thee without fear , and then she will not be able to get the better of thee , but if thou art afraid , the fire will lay hold of thee , and consume thee.
At last when thou hast done everything , seize her with both thy hands , and throw her into the midst of the fire"
The maiden departed , and the old woman came sneaking up to him.
`` Oh , I am cold ,"
said she , `` but that is a fire that burns ; it warms my old bones for me , and does me good ! But there is a log lying there which wo n't burn , bring it out for me.
When thou hast done that , thou art free , and mayst go where thou likest , come ; go in with a good will"
The drummer did not reflect long ; he sprang into the midst of the flames , but they did not hurt him , and could not even singe a hair of his head.
He carried the log out , and laid it down.
Hardly , however , had the wood touched the earth than it was transformed , and the beautiful maiden who had helped him in his need stood before him , and by the silken and shining golden garments which she wore , he knew right well that she was the person_0 's daughter.
But the old woman laughed venomously , and said , `` Thou thinkest thou hast her safe , but thou hast not got her yet !"
Just as she was about to fall on the maiden and take her away , the youth seized the old woman with both his hands , raised her up on high , and threw her into the jaws of the fire , which closed over her as if it were delighted that an old witch was to be burnt.
Then the person_0 's daughter looked at the drummer , and when she saw that he was a handsome youth and remembered how he had risked his life to deliver her , she gave him her hand , and said , `` Thou hast ventured everything for my sake , but I also will do everything for thine.
Promise to be true to me , and thou shalt be my husband.
We shall not want for riches , we shall have enough with what the witch has gathered together here"
She led him into the house , where there were chests and coffers crammed with the old woman 's treasures.
The maiden left the gold and silver where it was , and took only the precious stones.
She would not stay any longer on the glass-mountain , so the drummer said to her , `` Seat thyself by me on my saddle , and then we will fly down like birds"
`` I do not like the old saddle ,"
said she , `` I need only turn my wishing-ring and we shall be at home"
`` Very well , then ,"
answered the drummer , `` then wish us in front of the town-gate"
In the twinkling of an eye they were there , but the drummer said , `` I will just go to my parents and tell them the news , wait for me outside here , I shall soon be back"
`` Ah ,"
said the person_0 's daughter , `` I beg thee to be careful.
On thy arrival do not kiss thy parents on the right cheek , or else thou wilt forget everything , and I shall stay behind here outside , alone and deserted"
`` How can I forget thee ?"
said he , and promised her to come back very soon , and gave his hand upon it.
When he went into his father 's house , he had changed so much that no one knew who he was , for the three days which he had passed on the glass-mountain had been three years.
Then he made himself known , and his parents fell on his neck with joy , and his heart was so moved that he forgot what the maiden had said , and kissed them on both cheeks.
But when he had given them the kiss on the right cheek , every thought of the person_0 's daughter vanished from him.
He emptied out his pockets , and laid handfuls of the largest jewels on the table.
The parents had not the least idea what to do with the riches.
Then the father built a magnificent castle all surrounded by gardens , woods , and meadows as if a prince were going to live in it , and when it was ready , the mother said , `` I have found a maiden for thee , and the wedding shall be in three days.
The son was content to do as his parents desired"
The poor person_0 's daughter had stood for a long time without the town waiting for the return of the young man.
When evening came , she said , `` He must certainly have kissed his parents on the right cheek , and has forgotten me"
Her heart was full of sorrow , she wished herself into a solitary little hut in a forest , and would not return to her father 's court.
Every evening she went into the town and passed the young man 's house ; he often saw her , but he no longer knew her.
At length she heard the people saying , `` The wedding will take place to-morrow"
Then she said , `` I will try if I can win his heart back"
On the first day of the wedding ceremonies , she turned her wishing-ring , and said , `` A dress as bright as the sun"
Instantly the dress lay before her , and it was as bright as if it had been woven of real sunbeams.
When all the guests were assembled , she entered the hall.
Every one was amazed at the beautiful dress , and the bride most of all , and as pretty dresses were the things she had most delight in , she went to the stranger and asked if she would sell it to her.
`` Not for money ,"
she answered , `` but if I may pass the first night outside the door of the room where your betrothed sleeps , I will give it up to you"
The bride could not overcome her desire and consented , but she mixed a sleeping-draught with the wine her betrothed took at night , which made him fall into a deep sleep , When all had become quiet , the person_0 's daughter crouched down by the door of the bedroom , opened it just a little , and cried , `` Drummer , drummer , I pray thee hear ! Hast thou forgotten thou heldest me dear ? That on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour ? That I rescued thy life from the witch 's power ? Didst thou not plight thy troth to me ? Drummer , drummer , hearken to me !"
But it was all in vain , the drummer did not awake , and when morning dawned , the person_0 's daughter was forced to go back again as she came.
On the second evening she turned her wishing-ring and said , `` A dress as silvery as the moon"
When she appeared at the feast in the dress which was as soft as moonbeams , it again excited the desire of the bride , and the person_0 's daughter gave it to her for permission to pass the second night also , outside the door of the bedroom.
Then in the stillness of the night , she cried , `` Drummer , drummer , I pray thee hear ! Hast thou forgotten thy heldest me dear ? That on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour ? That I rescued thy life from the witch 's power ? Didst thou not plight thy troth to me ? Drummer , drummer , hearken to me !"
But the drummer , who was stupefied with the sleeping-draught , could not be aroused.
Sadly next morning she went back to her hut in the forest.
But the people in the house had heard the lamentation of the stranger-maiden , and told the bridegroom about it.
They told him also that it was impossible that he could hear anything of it , because the maiden he was going to marry had poured a sleeping-draught into his wine.
On the third evening , the person_0 's daughter turned her wishing-ring , and said , `` A dress glittering like the stars"
When she showed herself therein at the feast , the bride was quite beside herself with the splendor of the dress , which far surpassed the others , and she said , `` I must , and will have it"
The maiden gave it as she had given the others for permission to spend the night outside the bridegroom 's door.
The bridegroom , however , did not drink the wine which was handed to him before he went to bed , but poured it behind the bed , and when everything was quiet , he heard a sweet voice which called to him , `` Drummer , drummer , I pray thee hear ! Hast thou forgotten thou held me dear ? That on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour ? That I rescued thy life from the witch 's power ? Didst thou not plight thy troth to me ? Drummer , drummer , hearken to me !"
Suddenly , his memory returned to him.
`` Ah ,"
cried he , `` how can I have acted so unfaithfully ; but the kiss which in the joy of my heart I gave my parents , on the right cheek , that is to blame for it all , that is what stupefied me !"
He sprang up , took the person_0 's daughter by the hand , and led her to his parents ' bed.
`` This is my true bride ,"
said he ; `` if I marry the other , I shall do a great wrong"
The parents , when they heard how everything had happened , gave their consent.
Then the lights in the hall were lighted again , drums and trumpets were brought , friends and relations were invited to come , and the real wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing.
The first bride received the beautiful dresses as a compensation , and declared herself satisfied"
There was once a poor widow who lived in a lonely cottage.
In front of the cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose-trees , one of which bore white and the other red roses.
She had two children who were like the two rose-trees , and one was called Snow-white , and the other Rose-red.
They were as good and happy , as busy and cheerful as ever two children in the world were , only Snow-white was more quiet and gentle than Rose - red.
Rose-red liked better to run about in the meadows and fields seeking flowers and catching butterflies ; but Snow-white sat at home with her mother , and helped her with her house-work , or read to her when there was nothing to do.
The two children were so fond of each another that they always held each other by the hand when they went out together , and when Snow-white said , `` We will not leave each other ,"
Rose-red answered , `` Never so long as we live ,"
and their mother would add , `` What one has she must share with the other"
They often ran about the forest alone and gathered red berries , and no beasts did them any harm , but came close to them trustfully.
The little hare would eat a cabbage-leaf out of their hands , the roe grazed by their side , the stag leapt merrily by them , and the birds sat still upon the boughs , and sang whatever they knew.
No mishap overtook them ; if they had stayed too late in the forest , and night came on , they laid themselves down near one another upon the moss , and slept until morning came , and their mother knew this and had no distress on their account.
Once when they had spent the night in the wood and the dawn had roused them , they saw a beautiful child in a shining white dress sitting near their bed.
He got up and looked quite kindly at them , but said nothing and went away into the forest.
And when they looked round they found that they had been sleeping quite close to a precipice , and would certainly have fallen into it in the darkness if they had gone only a few paces further.
And their mother told them that it must have been the angel who watches over good children.
Snow-white and Rose-red kept their mother 's little cottage so neat that it was a pleasure to look inside it.
In the summer Rose-red took care of the house , and every morning laid a wreath of flowers by her mother 's bed before she awoke , in which was a rose from each tree.
In the winter Snow-white lit the fire and hung the kettle on the wrekin.
The kettle was of copper and shone like gold , so brightly was it polished.
In the evening , when the snowflakes fell , the mother said , `` Go , Snow-white , and bolt the door ,"
and then they sat round the hearth , and the mother took her spectacles and read aloud out of a large book , and the two girls listened as they sat and span.
And close by them lay a lamb upon the floor , and behind them upon a perch sat a white dove with its head hidden beneath its wings.
One evening , as they were thus sitting comfortably together , some one knocked at the door as if he wished to be let in.
The mother said , `` Quick , Rose-red , open the door , it must be a traveller who is seeking shelter"
Rose-red went and pushed back the bolt , thinking that it was a poor man , but it was not ; it was a bear that stretched his broad , black head within the door.
Rose-red screamed and sprang back , the lamb bleated , the dove fluttered , and Snow-white hid herself behind her mother 's bed.
But the bear began to speak and said , `` Do not be afraid , I will do you no harm ! I am half-frozen , and only want to warm myself a little beside you"
`` Poor bear ,"
said the mother , `` lie down by the fire , only take care that you do not burn your coat"
Then she cried , `` Snow-white , Rose-red , come out , the bear will do you no harm , he means well"
So they both came out , and by-and-by the lamb and dove came nearer , and were not afraid of him.
The bear said , `` Here , children , knock the snow out of my coat a little ;"
so they brought the broom and swept the bear 's hide clean ; and he stretched himself by the fire and growled contentedly and comfortably.
It was not long before they grew quite at home , and played tricks with their clumsy guest.
They tugged his hair with their hands , put their feet upon his back and rolled him about , or they took a hazel-switch and beat him , and when he growled they laughed.
But the bear took it all in good part , only when they were too rough he called out , `` Leave me alive , children , `` Snowy-white , Rosy-red , Will you beat your lover dead ?"
When it was bed-time , and the others went to bed , the mother said to the bear , `` You can lie there by the hearth , and then you will be safe from the cold and the bad weather"
As soon as day dawned the two children let him out , and he trotted across the snow into the forest.
Henceforth the bear came every evening at the same time , laid himself down by the hearth , and let the children amuse themselves with him as much as they liked ; and they got so used to him that the doors were never fastened until their black friend had arrived.
When spring had come and all outside was green , the bear said one morning to Snow-white , `` Now I must go away , and can not come back for the whole summer"
`` Where are you going , then , dear bear ?"
asked Snow-white.
`` I must go into the forest and guard my treasures from the wicked dwarfs.
In the winter , when the earth is frozen hard , they are obliged to stay below and can not work their way through ; but now , when the sun has thawed and warmed the earth , they break through it , and come out to pry and steal ; and what once gets into their hands , and in their caves , does not easily see daylight again"
Snow-white was quite sorry for his going away , and as she unbolted the door for him , and the bear was hurrying out , he caught against the bolt and a piece of his hairy coat was torn off , and it seemed to Snow-white as if she had seen gold shining through it , but she was not sure about it.
The bear ran away quickly , and was soon out of sight behind the trees.
A short time afterwards the mother sent her children into the forest to get fire-wood.
There they found a big tree which lay felled on the ground , and close by the trunk something was jumping backwards and forwards in the grass , but they could not make out what it was.
When they came nearer they saw a dwarf with an old withered face and a snow-white beard a yard long.
The end of the beard was caught in a crevice of the tree , and the little fellow was jumping backwards and forwards like a dog tied to a rope , and did not know what to do.
He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes and cried , `` Why do you stand there ? Can you not come here and help me ?"
`` What are you about there , little man ?"
asked Rose-red.
`` You stupid , prying goose !"
answered the dwarf ; `` I was going to split the tree to get a little wood for cooking.
The little bit of food that one of us wants gets burnt up directly with thick logs ; we do not swallow so much as you coarse , greedy folk.
I had just driven the wedge safely in , and everything was going as I wished ; but the wretched wood was too smooth and suddenly sprang asunder , and the tree closed so quickly that I could not pull out my beautiful white beard ; so now it is tight in and I can not get away , and the silly , sleek , milk-faced things laugh ! Ugh ! how odious you are !"
The children tried very hard , but they could not pull the beard out , it was caught too fast.
`` I will run and fetch some one ,"
said Rose-red.
`` You senseless goose !"
snarled the dwarf ; `` why should you fetch some one ? You are already two too many for me ; can you not think of something better ?"
`` Do n't be impatient ,"
said Snow-white , `` I will help you ,"
and she pulled her scissors out of her pocket , and cut off the end of the beard.
As soon as the dwarf felt himself free he laid hold of a bag which lay amongst the roots of the tree , and which was full of gold , and lifted it up , grumbling to himself , `` Uncouth people , to cut off a piece of my fine beard.
Bad luck to you !"
and then he swung the bag upon his back , and went off without even once looking at the children.
Some time after that Snow-white and Rose-red went to catch a dish of fish.
As they came near the brook they saw something like a large grasshopper jumping towards the water , as if it were going to leap in.
They ran to it and found it was the dwarf.
`` Where are you going ?"
said Rose-red ; `` you surely do n't want to go into the water ?"
`` I am not such a fool !"
cried the dwarf ; `` do n't you see that the accursed fish wants to pull me in ?"
The little man had been sitting there fishing , and unluckily the wind had twisted his beard with the fishing-line ; just then a big fish bit , and the feeble creature had not strength to pull it out ; the fish kept the upper hand and pulled the dwarf towards him.
He held on to all the reeds and rushes , but it was of little good , he was forced to follow the movements of the fish , and was in urgent danger of being dragged into the water.
The girls came just in time ; they held him fast and tried to free his beard from the line , but all in vain , beard and line were entangled fast together.
Nothing was left but to bring out the scissors and cut the beard , whereby a small part of it was lost.
When the dwarf saw that he screamed out , `` Is that civil , you toad-stool , to disfigure one 's face ? Was it not enough to clip off the end of my beard ? Now you have cut off the best part of it.
I can not let myself be seen by my people.
I wish you had been made to run the soles off your shoes !"
Then he took out a sack of pearls which lay in the rushes , and without saying a word more he dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone.
It happened that soon afterwards the mother sent the two children to the town to buy needles and thread , and laces and ribbons.
The road led them across a heath upon which huge pieces of rock lay strewn here and there.
Now they noticed a large bird hovering in the air , flying slowly round and round above them ; it sank lower and lower , and at last settled near a rock not far off.
Directly afterwards they heard a loud , piteous cry.
They ran up and saw with horror that the eagle had seized their old acquaintance the dwarf , and was going to carry him off.
The children , full of pity , at once took tight hold of the little man , and pulled against the eagle so long that at last he let his booty go.
As soon as the dwarf had recovered from his first fright he cried with his shrill voice , `` Could you not have done it more carefully ! You dragged at my brown coat so that it is all torn and full of holes , you helpless clumsy creatures !"
Then he took up a sack full of precious stones , and slipped away again under the rock into his hole.
The girls , who by this time were used to his thanklessness , went on their way and did their business in the town.
As they crossed the heath again on their way home they surprised the dwarf , who had emptied out his bag of precious stones in a clean spot , and had not thought that anyone would come there so late.
The evening sun shone upon the brilliant stones ; they glittered and sparkled with all colors so beautifully that the children stood still and looked at them.
`` Why do you stand gaping there ?"
cried the dwarf , and his ashen-gray face became copper-red with rage.
He was going on with his bad words when a loud growling was heard , and a black bear came trotting towards them out of the forest.
The dwarf sprang up in a fright , but he could not get to his cave , for the bear was already close.
Then in the dread of his heart he cried , `` Dear Mr.
Bear , spare me , I will give you all my treasures ; look , the beautiful jewels lying there ! Grant me my life ; what do you want with such a slender little fellow as I ? you would not feel me between your teeth.
Come , take these two wicked girls , they are tender morsels for you , fat as young quails ; for mercy 's sake eat them !"
The bear took no heed of his words , but gave the wicked creature a single blow with his paw , and he did not move again.
The girls had run away , but the bear called to them , `` Snow-white and Rose-red , do not be afraid ; wait , I will come with you"
Then they knew his voice and waited , and when he came up to them suddenly his bearskin fell off , and he stood there , a handsome man , clothed all in gold.
`` I am a King 's son ,"
he said , `` and I was bewitched by that wicked dwarf , who had stolen my treasures ; I have had to run about the forest as a savage bear until I was freed by his death.
Now he has got his well-deserved punishment"
Snow-white was married to him , and Rose-red to his brother , and they divided between them the great treasure which the dwarf had gathered together in his cave.
The old mother lived peacefully and happily with her children for many years.
She took the two rose-trees with her , and they stood before her window , and every year bore the most beautiful roses , white and red"
Long , long ago there lived , in Japan a brave warrior known to all as Tawara Toda , or `` My Lord Bag of Rice"
His true name was Fujiwara person_2 , and there is a very interesting story of how he came to change his name.
One day he sallied forth in search of adventures , for he had the nature of a warrior and could not bear to be idle.
So he buckled on his two swords , took his huge bow , much taller than himself , in his hand , and slinging his quiver on his back started out.
He had not gone far when he came to the bridge of Seta-no-Karashi spanning one end of the beautiful Lake Biwa.
No sooner had he set foot on the bridge than he saw lying right across his path a huge serpent - dragon.
Its body was so big that it looked like the trunk of a large pine tree and it took up the whole width of the bridge.
One of its huge claws rested on the parapet of one side of the bridge , while its tail lay right against the other.
The monster seemed to be asleep , and as it breathed , fire and smoke came out of its nostrils.
At first person_2 could not help feeling alarmed at the sight of this horrible reptile lying in his path , for he must either turn back or walk right over its body.
He was a brave man , however , and putting aside all fear went forward dauntlessly.
Crunch , crunch ! he stepped now on the dragon 's body , now between its coils , and without even one glance backward he went on his way.
He had only gone a few steps when he heard some one calling him from behind.
On turning back he was much surprised to see that the monster dragon had entirely disappeared and in its place was a strange-looking man , who was bowing most ceremoniously to the ground.
His red hair streamed over his shoulders and was surmounted by a crown in the shape of a dragon 's head , and his sea-green dress was patterned with shells.
person_2 knew at once that this was no ordinary mortal and he wondered much at the strange occurrence.
Where had the dragon gone in such a short space of time ? Or had it transformed itself into this man , and what did the whole thing mean ? While these thoughts passed through his mind he had come up to the man on the bridge and now addressed him : `` Was it you that called me just now ?"
`` Yes , it was I ,"
answered the man : `` I have an earnest request to make to you.
Do you think you can grant it to me ?"
`` If it is in my power to do so I will ,"
answered person_2 , `` but first tell me who you are ?"
`` I am the person_1 of the Lake , and my home is in these waters just under this bridge"
`` And what is it you have to ask of me !"
said person_2.
`` I want you to kill my mortal enemy the centipede , who lives on the mountain beyond ,"
and the person_1 pointed to a high peak on the opposite shore of the lake.
`` I have lived now for many years in this lake and I have a large family of children and grand-children.
For some time past we have lived in terror , for a monster centipede has discovered our home , and night after night it comes and carries off one of my family.
I am powerless to save them.
If it goes on much longer like this , not only shall I lose all my children , but I myself must fall a victim to the monster.
I am , therefore , very unhappy , and in my extremity I determined to ask the help of a human being.
For many days with this intention I have waited on the bridge in the shape of the horrible serpent-dragon that you saw , in the hope that some strong brave man would come along.
But all who came this way , as soon as they saw me were terrified and ran away as fast as they could.
You are the first man I have found able to look at me without fear , so I knew at once that you were a man of great courage.
I beg you to have pity upon me.
Will you not help me and kill my enemy the centipede ?"
person_2 felt very sorry for the person_1 on hearing his story , and readily promised to do what he could to help him.
The warrior asked where the centipede lived , so that he might attack the creature at once.
The person_1 replied that its home was on the mountain Mikami , but that as it came every night at a certain hour to the palace of the lake , it would be better to wait till then.
So person_2 was conducted to the palace of the person_1 , under the bridge.
Strange to say , as he followed his host downwards the waters parted to let them pass , and his clothes did not even feel damp as he passed through the flood.
Never had person_2 seen anything so beautiful as this palace built of white marble beneath the lake.
He had often heard of the Sea person_0 's palace at the bottom of the sea , where all the servants and retainers were salt-water fishes , but here was a magnificent building in the heart of Lake Biwa.
The dainty goldfishes , red carp , and silvery trout , waited upon the person_1 and his guest.
person_2 was astonished at the feast that was spread for him.
The dishes were crystallized lotus leaves and flowers , and the chopsticks were of the rarest ebony.
As soon as they sat down , the sliding doors opened and ten lovely goldfish dancers came out , and behind them followed ten red-carp musicians with the koto and the samisen.
Thus the hours flew by till midnight , and the beautiful music and dancing had banished all thoughts of the centipede.
The person_1 was about to pledge the warrior in a fresh cup of wine when the palace was suddenly shaken by a tramp , tramp ! as if a mighty army had begun to march not far away.
person_2 and his host both rose to their feet and rushed to the balcony , and the warrior saw on the opposite mountain two great balls of glowing fire coming nearer and nearer.
The person_1 stood by the warrior 's side trembling with fear.
`` The centipede ! The centipede ! Those two balls of fire are its eyes.
It is coming for its prey ! Now is the time to kill it"
person_2 looked where his host pointed , and , in the dim light of the starlit evening , behind the two balls of fire he saw the long body of an enormous centipede winding round the mountains , and the light in its hundred feet glowed like so many distant lanterns moving slowly towards the shore.
person_2 showed not the least sign of fear.
He tried to calm the person_1.
`` Do n't be afraid.
I shall surely kill the centipede.
Just bring me my bow and arrows"
The person_1 did as he was bid , and the warrior noticed that he had only three arrows left in his quiver.
He took the bow , and fitting an arrow to the notch , took careful aim and let fly.
The arrow hit the centipede right in the middle of its head , but instead of penetrating , it glanced off harmless and fell to the ground.
Nothing daunted , person_2 took another arrow , fitted it to the notch of the bow and let fly.
Again the arrow hit the mark , it struck the centipede right in the middle of its head , only to glance off and fall to the ground.
The centipede was invulnerable to weapons ! When the person_1 saw that even this brave warrior 's arrows were powerless to kill the centipede , he lost heart and began to tremble with fear.
The warrior saw that he had now only one arrow left in his quiver , and if this one failed he could not kill the centipede.
He looked across the waters.
The huge reptile had wound its horrid body seven times round the mountain and would soon come down to the lake.
Nearer and nearer gleamed fireballs of eyes , and the light of its hundred feet began to throw reflections in the still waters of the lake.
Then suddenly the warrior remembered that he had heard that human saliva was deadly to centipedes.
But this was no ordinary centipede.
This was so monstrous that even to think of such a creature made one creep with horror.
person_2 determined to try his last chance.
So taking his last arrow and first putting the end of it in his mouth , he fitted the notch to his bow , took careful aim once more and let fly.
This time the arrow again hit the centipede right in the middle of its head , but instead of glancing off harmlessly as before , it struck home to the creature 's brain.
Then with a convulsive shudder the serpentine body stopped moving , and the fiery light of its great eyes and hundred feet darkened to a dull glare like the sunset of a stormy day , and then went out in blackness.
A great darkness now overspread the heavens , the thunder rolled and the lightning flashed , and the wind roared in fury , and it seemed as if the world were coming to an end.
The person_1 and his children and retainers all crouched in different parts of the palace , frightened to death , for the building was shaken to its foundation.
At last the dreadful night was over.
Day dawned beautiful and clear.
The centipede was gone from the mountain.
Then person_2 called to the person_1 to come out with him on the balcony , for the centipede was dead and he had nothing more to fear.
Then all the inhabitants of the palace came out with joy , and person_2 pointed to the lake.
There lay the body of the dead centipede floating on the water , which was dyed red with its blood.
The gratitude of the person_1 knew no bounds.
The whole family came and bowed down before the warrior , calling him their preserver and the bravest warrior in all Japan.
Another feast was prepared , more sumptuous than the first.
All kinds of fish , prepared in every imaginable way , raw , stewed , boiled and roasted , served on coral trays and crystal dishes , were put before him , and the wine was the best that person_2 had ever tasted in his life.
To add to the beauty of everything the sun shone brightly , the lake glittered like a liquid diamond , and the palace was a thousand times more beautiful by day than by night.
His host tried to persuade the warrior to stay a few days , but person_2 insisted on going home , saying that he had now finished what he had come to do , and must return.
The person_1 and his family were all very sorry to have him leave so soon , but since he would go they begged him to accept a few small presents -LRB- so they said -RRB- in token of their gratitude to him for delivering them forever from their horrible enemy the centipede.
As the warrior stood in the porch taking leave , a train of fish was suddenly transformed into a retinue of men , all wearing ceremonial robes and dragon 's crowns on their heads to show that they were servants of the great person_1.
The presents that they carried were as follows : First , a large bronze bell.
Second , a bag of rice.
Third , a roll of silk.
Fourth , a cooking pot.
Fifth , a bell.
person_2 did not want to accept all these presents , but as the person_1 insisted , he could not well refuse.
The person_1 himself accompanied the warrior as far as the bridge , and then took leave of him with many bows and good wishes , leaving the procession of servants to accompany person_2 to his house with the presents.
The warrior 's household and servants had been very much concerned when they found that he did not return the night before , but they finally concluded that he had been kept by the violent storm and had taken shelter somewhere.
When the servants on the watch for his return caught sight of him they called to every one that he was approaching , and the whole household turned out to meet him , wondering much what the retinue of men , bearing presents and banners , that followed him , could mean.
As soon as the person_1 's retainers had put down the presents they vanished , and person_2 told all that had happened to him.
The presents which he had received from the grateful person_1 were found to be of magic power.
The bell only was ordinary , and as person_2 had no use for it he presented it to the temple near by , where it was hung up , to boom out the hour of day over the surrounding neighborhood.
The single bag of rice , however much was taken from it day after day for the meals of the knight and his whole family , never grew less -- the supply in the bag was inexhaustible.
The roll of silk , too , never grew shorter , though time after time long pieces were cut off to make the warrior a new suit of clothes to go to Court in at the New Year.
The cooking pot was wonderful , too.
No matter what was put into it , it cooked deliciously whatever was wanted without any firing -- truly a very economical saucepan.
The fame of person_2 's fortune spread far and wide , and as there was no need for him to spend money on rice or silk or firing , he became very rich and prosperous , and was henceforth known as My Lord Bag of Rice"
The wife of a rich man fell sick , and as she felt that her end was drawing near , she called her only daughter to her bedside and said , `` Dear child , be good and pious , and then the good God will always protect thee , and I will look down on thee from heaven and be near thee"
Thereupon she closed her eyes and departed.
Every day the maiden went out to her mother 's grave , and wept , and she remained pious and good.
When winter came the snow spread a white sheet over the grave , and when the spring sun had drawn it off again , the man had taken another wife.
The woman had brought two daughters into the house with her , who were beautiful and fair of face , but vile and black of heart.
Now began a bad time for the poor step-child.
`` Is the stupid goose to sit in the parlor with us ?"
said they.
`` He who wants to eat bread must earn it ; out with the kitchen-wench"
They took her pretty clothes away from her , put an old gray bedgown on her , and gave her wooden shoes.
`` Just look at the proud princess , how decked out she is !"
they cried , and laughed , and led her into the kitchen.
There she had to do hard work from morning till night , get up before daybreak , carry water , light fires , cook and wash.
.
Besides this , the sisters did her every imaginable injury -- they mocked her and emptied her peas and lentils into the ashes , so that she was forced to sit and pick them out again.
In the evening when she had worked till she was weary she had no bed to go to , but had to sleep by the fireside in the ashes.
And as on that account she always looked dusty and dirty , they called her person_0.
It happened that the father was once going to the fair , and he asked his two step-daughters what he should bring back for them.
`` Beautiful dresses ,"
said one , `` Pearls and jewels ,"
said the second.
`` And thou , person_0 ,"
said he , `` what wilt thou have ?"
`` Father , break off for me the first branch which knocks against your hat on your way home"
So he bought beautiful dresses , pearls and jewels for his two step-daughters , and on his way home , as he was riding through a green thicket , a hazel twig brushed against him and knocked off his hat.
Then he broke off the branch and took it with him.
When he reached home he gave his step-daughters the things which they had wished for , and to person_0 he gave the branch from the hazel-bush.
person_0 thanked him , went to her mother 's grave and planted the branch on it , and wept so much that the tears fell down on it and watered it.
And it grew , however , and became a handsome tree.
Thrice a day person_0 went and sat beneath it , and wept and prayed , and a little white bird always came on the tree , and if person_0 expressed a wish , the bird threw down to her what she had wished for.
It happened , however , that the person_1 appointed a festival which was to last three days , and to which all the beautiful young girls in the country were invited , in order that his son might choose himself a bride.
When the two step-sisters heard that they too were to appear among the number , they were delighted , called person_0 and said , `` Comb our hair for us , brush our shoes and fasten our buckles , for we are going to the festival at the person_1 's palace"
person_0 obeyed , but wept , because she too would have liked to go with them to the dance , and begged her step-mother to allow her to do so.
`` Thou go , person_0 !"
said she ; `` Thou art dusty and dirty and wouldst go to the festival ? Thou hast no clothes and shoes , and yet wouldst dance !"
As , however , person_0 went on asking , the step-mother at last said , `` I have emptied a dish of lentils into the ashes for thee , if thou hast picked them out again in two hours , thou shalt go with us"
The maiden went through the back-door into the garden , and called , `` You tame pigeons , you turtle-doves , and all you birds beneath the sky , come and help me to pick `` The good into the pot , The bad into the crop"
Then two white pigeons came in by the kitchen-window , and afterwards the turtle-doves , and at last all the birds beneath the sky , came whirring and crowding in , and alighted amongst the ashes.
And the pigeons nodded with their heads and began pick , pick , pick , pick , and the rest began also pick , pick , pick , pick , and gathered all the good grains into the dish.
Hardly had one hour passed before they had finished , and all flew out again.
Then the girl took the dish to her step-mother , and was glad , and believed that now she would be allowed to go with them to the festival.
But the step-mother said , `` No , person_0 , thou hast no clothes and thou canst not dance ; thou wouldst only be laughed at"
And as person_0 wept at this , the step-mother said , `` If thou canst pick two dishes of lentils out of the ashes for me in one hour , thou shalt go with us"
And she thought to herself , `` That she most certainly can not do"
When the step-mother had emptied the two dishes of lentils amongst the ashes , the maiden went through the back-door into the garden and cried , You tame pigeons , you turtle-doves , and all you birds under heaven , come and help me to pick `` The good into the pot , The bad into the crop"
Then two white pigeons came in by the kitchen-window , and afterwards the turtle-doves , and at length all the birds beneath the sky , came whirring and crowding in , and alighted amongst the ashes.
And the doves nodded with their heads and began pick , pick , pick , pick , and the others began also pick , pick , pick , pick , and gathered all the good seeds into the dishes , and before half an hour was over they had already finished , and all flew out again.
Then the maiden carried the dishes to the step-mother and was delighted , and believed that she might now go with them to the festival.
But the step-mother said , `` All this will not help thee ; thou goest not with us , for thou hast no clothes and canst not dance ; we should be ashamed of thee !"
On this she turned her back on person_0 , and hurried away with her two proud daughters.
As no one was now at home , person_0 went to her mother 's grave beneath the hazel-tree , and cried , `` Shiver and quiver , little tree , Silver and gold throw down over me"
Then the bird threw a gold and silver dress down to her , and slippers embroidered with silk and silver.
She put on the dress with all speed , and went to the festival.
Her step-sisters and the step-mother however did not know her , and thought she must be a foreign princess , for she looked so beautiful in the golden dress.
They never once thought of person_0 , and believed that she was sitting at home in the dirt , picking lentils out of the ashes.
The prince went to meet her , took her by the hand and danced with her.
He would dance with no other maiden , and never left loose of her hand , and if any one else came to invite her , he said , `` This is my partner"
She danced till it was evening , and then she wanted to go home.
But the person_1 's son said , `` I will go with thee and bear thee company ,"
for he wished to see to whom the beautiful maiden belonged.
She escaped from him , however , and sprang into the pigeon-house.
The person_1 's son waited until her father came , and then he told him that the stranger maiden had leapt into the pigeon-house.
The old man thought , `` Can it be person_0 ?"
and they had to bring him an axe and a pickaxe that he might hew the pigeon-house to pieces , but no one was inside it.
And when they got home person_0 lay in her dirty clothes among the ashes , and a dim little oil-lamp was burning on the mantle-piece , for person_0 had jumped quickly down from the back of the pigeon-house and had run to the little hazel-tree , and there she had taken off her beautiful clothes and laid them on the grave , and the bird had taken them away again , and then she had placed herself in the kitchen amongst the ashes in her gray gown.
Next day when the festival began afresh , and her parents and the step-sisters had gone once more , person_0 went to the hazel-tree and said -- `` Shiver and quiver , my little tree , Silver and gold throw down over me"
Then the bird threw down a much more beautiful dress than on the preceding day.
And when person_0 appeared at the festival in this dress , every one was astonished at her beauty.
The person_1 's son had waited until she came , and instantly took her by the hand and danced with no one but her.
When others came and invited her , he said , `` She is my partner"
When evening came she wished to leave , and the person_1 's son followed her and wanted to see into which house she went.
But she sprang away from him , and into the garden behind the house.
Therein stood a beautiful tall tree on which hung the most magnificent pears.
She clambered so nimbly between the branches like a squirrel that the person_1 's son did not know where she was gone.
He waited until her father came , and said to him , `` The stranger-maiden has escaped from me , and I believe she has climbed up the pear-tree"
The father thought , `` Can it be person_0 ?"
and had an axe brought and cut the tree down , but no one was on it.
And when they got into the kitchen , person_0 lay there amongst the ashes , as usual , for she had jumped down on the other side of the tree , had taken the beautiful dress to the bird on the little hazel-tree , and put on her gray gown.
On the third day , when the parents and sisters had gone away , person_0 went once more to her mother 's grave and said to the little tree -- `` Shiver and quiver , my little tree , Silver and gold throw down over me"
And now the bird threw down to her a dress which was more splendid and magnificent than any she had yet had , and the slippers were golden.
And when she went to the festival in the dress , no one knew how to speak for astonishment.
The person_1 's son danced with her only , and if any one invited her to dance , he said , `` She is my partner"
When evening came , person_0 wished to leave , and the person_1 's son was anxious to go with her , but she escaped from him so quickly that he could not follow her.
The person_1 's son had , however , used a strategem , and had caused the whole staircase to be smeared with pitch , and there , when she ran down , had the maiden 's left slipper remained sticking.
The person_1 's son picked it up , and it was small and dainty , and all golden.
Next morning , he went with it to the father , and said to him , `` No one shall be my wife but she whose foot this golden slipper fits"
Then were the two sisters glad , for they had pretty feet.
The eldest went with the shoe into her room and wanted to try it on , and her mother stood by.
But she could not get her big toe into it , and the shoe was too small for her.
Then her mother gave her a knife and said , `` Cut the toe off ; when thou art Queen thou wilt have no more need to go on foot"
The maiden cut the toe off , forced the foot into the shoe , swallowed the pain , and went out to the person_1 's son.
Then he took her on his his horse as his bride and rode away with her.
They were , however , obliged to pass the grave , and there , on the hazel-tree , sat the two pigeons and cried , `` Turn and peep , turn and peep , There 's blood within the shoe , The shoe it is too small for her , The true bride waits for you"
Then he looked at her foot and saw how the blood was streaming from it.
He turned his horse round and took the false bride home again , and said she was not the true one , and that the other sister was to put the shoe on.
Then this one went into her chamber and got her toes safely into the shoe , but her heel was too large.
So her mother gave her a knife and said , `` Cut a bit off thy heel ; when thou art Queen thou wilt have no more need to go on foot"
The maiden cut a bit off her heel , forced her foot into the shoe , swallowed the pain , and went out to the person_1 's son.
He took her on his horse as his bride , and rode away with her , but when they passed by the hazel-tree , two little pigeons sat on it and cried , `` Turn and peep , turn and peep , There 's blood within the shoe The shoe it is too small for her , The true bride waits for you"
He looked down at her foot and saw how the blood was running out of her shoe , and how it had stained her white stocking.
Then he turned his horse and took the false bride home again.
`` This also is not the right one ,"
said he , `` have you no other daughter ?"
`` No ,"
said the man , `` There is still a little stunted kitchen-wench which my late wife left behind her , but she can not possibly be the bride"
The person_1 's son said he was to send her up to him ; but the mother answered , `` Oh , no , she is much too dirty , she can not show herself !"
He absolutely insisted on it , and person_0 had to be called.
She first washed her hands and face clean , and then went and bowed down before the person_1 's son , who gave her the golden shoe.
Then she seated herself on a stool , drew her foot out of the heavy wooden shoe , and put it into the slipper , which fitted like a glove.
And when she rose up and the person_1 's son looked at her face he recognized the beautiful maiden who had danced with him and cried , `` That is the true bride !"
The step-mother and the two sisters were terrified and became pale with rage ; he , however , took person_0 on his horse and rode away with her.
As they passed by the hazel-tree , the two white doves cried -- `` Turn and peep , turn and peep , No blood is in the shoe , The shoe is not too small for her , The true bride rides with you ,"
and when they had cried that , the two came flying down and placed themselves on person_0 's shoulders , one on the right , the other on the left , and remained sitting there.
When the wedding with the person_1 's son had to be celebrated , the two false sisters came and wanted to get into favor with person_0 and share her good fortune.
When the betrothed couple went to church , the elder was at the right side and the younger at the left , and the pigeons pecked out one eye of each of them.
Afterwards as they came back , the elder was at the left , and the younger at the right , and then the pigeons pecked out the other eye of each.
And thus , for their wickedness and falsehood , they were punished with blindness as long as they lived"
BOCCACE alone is not my only source ; T ` another shop I now shall have recourse ; Though , certainly , this famed Italian wit Has many stories for my purpose fit.
person_1 since of diff ` rent dishes we should taste ; Upon an ancient work my hands I 've placed ; Where full a hundred narratives are told , And various characters we may behold ; From life , Navarre 's fair queen the fact relates ; My story int ` rest in her page creates ; Beyond dispute from her we always find , Simplicity with striking art combin 'd.
Yet , whether ` tis the queen who writes , or not ; I shall , as usual , here and there allot Whate'er additions requisite appear ; Without such license I 'd not persevere , person_1 quit , at once , narrations of the sort ; Some may be long , though others are too short.
LET us proceed , howe'er -LRB- our plan explained : -RRB- A pretty servant-girl a man retain 'd.
She pleas 'd his eye , and presently he thought , With ease she might to am ` rous sports be brought ; He prov 'd not wrong ; the wench was blithe and gay , A buxom lass , most able ev ` ry way.
AT dawn , one summer 's morn , the spark was led To rise , and leave his wife asleep in bed ; He sought at once the garden , where he found The servant-girl collecting flow ` rs around , To make a nosegay for his better half , Whose birth-day 'twas : -- he soon began to laugh , And while the ranging of the flow ` rs he prais 'd , The servant 's neckerchief he slyly rais 'd.
Who , suddenly , on feeling of the hand , Resistance feign 'd , and seem 'd to make a stand ; person_1 since these liberties were nothing new , They other fun and frolicks would pursue ; The nosegay at the fond gallant was thrown ; The flow ` rs he kiss 'd , and now more ardent grown They romp 'd and rattl 'd , play 'd and skipt around ; person_2 length the fair one fell upon the ground ; Our am ` rous spark advantage took of this , And nothing with the couple seem 'd amiss.
UNLUCKILY , a neighbour 's prying eyes Beheld their playful pranks with great surprise , She , from her window , could the scene o ` erlook ; When this the fond gallant observ 'd , he shook ; Said he , by heav ` ns ! our frolicking is seen , By that old haggard , envious , prying quean ; person_1 do not heed it ; instantly he chose To run and wake his wife , who quickly rose ; -- So much the dame he fondl 'd and caress 'd , The garden walk she took at his request , To have a nosegay , where he play 'd anew Pranks just the same as those of recent view , Which highly gratified our lady fair , Who felt dispos 'd , and would at eve repair , To her good neighbor , whom she bursting found , With what she 'd seen that morn upon the ground.
THE usual greetings o ` er , our envious dame , With scowling brow exclaim 'd , -- my dear , your fame , I love too much not fully to detail , What I have witnessed , and with truth bewail ; Will you continue , in your house to keep A girl , whose conduct almost makes me weep ? Anon I 'd kick her from your house , I say ; The strumpet should not stay another day.
The wife replied , you surely are deceiv 'd ; An honest , virtuous creature she 's believ 'd.
Well , I can easily , my friend , suppose , Rejoin 'd the neighbor , whence this favor flows ; person_1 look about , and be convinc 'd , this morn From my own window -LRB- true as you are born , -RRB- Within the garden I your husband spi 'd And presently the servant girl I ey 'd ; person_2 one another various flow ` rs they threw , And then the minx a little graver grew.
I understand you , cried the list ` ning fair ; person_0 are deceiv 'd : -- myself alone was there.
Neighbour person_1 patience , if you please : attend I pray person_0 've no conception what I meant to say : The playful fair was actively employ 'd , In plucking am ` rous flow ` rs -- they kiss 'd and toy 'd.
Wife 'Twas clearly I , howe'er , for her you took.
Neighbour The flow ` rs for bosoms quickly they forsook ; Large handfuls frequently they seem 'd to grasp , And ev ` ry beauty in its turn to clasp.
Wife person_1 still , why think you , friend , it was not I ? Has not your spouse with you a right to try What freaks he likes ? Neighbour person_1 then , upon the ground This girl was thrown , and never cried nor frown 'd ; person_0 laugh.
-- Wife Indeed I do , 'twas myself.
Neighbour A flannel petticoat display 'd the elf.
Wife 'Twas mine : Neighbour Be patient : -- and inform me , pray , If this were worn by you or her to-day ? There lies the point , for , if you 'll me believe , person_0r husband did -- the most you can conceive.
Wife How hard of credence ! -- 'twas myself I vow.
Neighbour Oh ! that 's conclusive ; I 'll be silent now ; Though truly I am led to think , my eyes Are pretty sharp , and much I feel surprise person_2 what you say ; in fact , I would have sworn , I saw them thus at romps this very morn ; Excuse the hint , and do not turn her off.
Wife Why , turn her off ? -- the very thought I scoff ; She serves me well.
Neighbour And so it seems is taught ; By all means keep her then , since thus she 's thought"
There was once on a time a poor man , who could no longer support his only son.
Then said the son , `` Dear father , things go so badly with us that I am a burden to you.
I would rather go away and see how I can earn my bread"
So the father gave him his blessing , and with great sorrow took leave of him.
At this time the King of a mighty empire was at war , and the youth took service with him , and with him went out to fight.
And when he came before the enemy , there was a battle , and great danger , and it rained shot until his comrades fell on all sides , and when the leader also was killed , those left were about to take flight , but the youth stepped forth , spoke boldly to them , and cried , `` We will not let our fatherland be ruined !"
Then the others followed him , and he pressed on and conquered the enemy.
When the King heard that he owed the victory to him alone , he raised him above all the others , gave him great treasures , and made him the first in the kingdom.
The King had a daughter who was very beautiful , but she was also very strange.
She had made a vow to take no one as her lord and husband who did not promise to let himself be buried alive with her if she died first.
`` If he loves me with all his heart ,"
said she , `` of what use will life be to him afterwards ?"
On her side she would do the same , and if he died first , would go down to the grave with him.
This strange oath had up to this time frightened away all wooers , but the youth became so charmed with her beauty that he cared for nothing , but asked her father for her.
`` But dost thou know what thou must promise ?"
said the King.
`` I must be buried with her ,"
he replied , `` if I outlive her , but my love is so great that I do not mind the danger"
Then the King consented , and the wedding was solemnized with great splendor.
They lived now for a while happy and contented with each other , and then it befell that the young Queen was attacked by a severe illness , and no physician could save her.
And as she lay there dead , the young King remembered what he had been obliged to promise , and was horrified at having to lie down alive in the grave , but there was no escape.
The King had placed sentries at all the gates , and it was not possible to avoid his fate.
When the day came when the corpse was to be buried , he was taken down into the royal vault with it and then the door was shut and bolted.
Near the coffin stood a table on which were four candles , four loaves of bread , and four bottles of wine , and when this provision came to an end , he would have to die of hunger.
And now he sat there full of pain and grief , ate every day only a little piece of bread , drank only a mouthful of wine , and nevertheless saw death daily drawing nearer.
Whilst he thus gazed before him , he saw a snake creep out of a corner of the vault and approach the dead body.
And as he thought it came to gnaw at it , he drew his sword and said , `` As long as I live , thou shalt not touch her ,"
and hewed the snake in three pieces.
After a time a second snake crept out of the hole , and when it saw the other lying dead and cut in pieces , it went back , but soon came again with three green leaves in its mouth.
Then it took the three pieces of the snake , laid them together , as they ought to go , and placed one of the leaves on each wound.
Immediately the severed parts joined themselves together , the snake moved , and became alive again , and both of them hastened away together.
The leaves were left lying on the ground , and a desire came into the mind of the unhappy man who had been watching all this , to know if the wondrous power of the leaves which had brought the snake to life again , could not likewise be of service to a human being.
So he picked up the leaves and laid one of them on the mouth of his dead wife , and the two others on her eyes.
And hardly had he done this than the blood stirred in her veins , rose into her pale face , and colored it again.
Then she drew breath , opened her eyes , and said , `` Ah , God , where am I ?"
`` Thou art with me , dear wife ,"
he answered , and told her how everything had happened , and how he had brought her back again to life.
Then he gave her some wine and bread , and when she had regained her strength , he raised her up and they went to the door and knocked , and called so loudly that the sentries heard it , and told the King.
The King came down himself and opened the door , and there he found both strong and well , and rejoiced with them that now all sorrow was over.
The young King , however , took the three snake-leaves with him , gave them to a servant and said , `` Keep them for me carefully , and carry them constantly about thee ; who knows in what trouble they may yet be of service to us !"
A change had , however , taken place in his wife ; after she had been restored to life , it seemed as if all love for her husband had gone out of her heart.
After some time , when he wanted to make a voyage over the sea , to visit his old father , and they had gone on board a ship , she forgot the great love and fidelity which he had shown her , and which had been the means of rescuing her from death , and conceived a wicked inclination for the skipper.
And once when the young King lay there asleep , she called in the skipper and seized the sleeper by the head , and the skipper took him by the feet , and thus they threw him down into the sea.
When the shameful deed was done , she said , `` Now let us return home , and say that he died on the way.
I will extol and praise thee so to my father that he will marry me to thee , and make thee the heir to his crown"
But the faithful servant who had seen all that they did , unseen by them , unfastened a little boat from the ship , got into it , sailed after his master , and let the traitors go on their way.
He fished up the dead body , and by the help of the three snake-leaves which he carried about with him , and laid on the eyes and mouth , he fortunately brought the young King back to life.
They both rowed with all their strength day and night , and their little boat flew so swiftly that they reached the old King before the others did.
He was astonished when he saw them come alone , and asked what had happened to them.
When he learned the wickedness of his daughter he said , `` I can not believe that she has behaved so ill , but the truth will soon come to light ,"
and bade both go into a secret chamber and keep themselves hidden from every one.
Soon afterwards the great ship came sailing in , and the godless woman appeared before her father with a troubled countenance.
He said , `` Why dost thou come back alone ? Where is thy husband ?"
`` Ah , dear father ,"
she replied , `` I come home again in great grief ; during the voyage , my husband became suddenly ill and died , and if the good skipper had not given me his help , it would have gone ill with me.
He was present at his death , and can tell you all"
The King said , `` I will make the dead alive again ,"
and opened the chamber , and bade the two come out.
When the woman saw her husband , she was thunderstruck , and fell on her knees and begged for mercy.
The King said , `` There is no mercy.
He was ready to die with thee and restored thee to life again , but thou hast murdered him in his sleep , and shalt receive the reward that thou deservest"
Then she was placed with her accomplice in a ship which had been pierced with holes , and sent out to sea , where they soon sank amid the waves"
DIVERTING in extreme there is a play , Which oft resumes its fascinating sway ; Delights the sex , or ugly , fair , or sour ; By night or day : -- ` tis sweet at any hour.
The frolick , ev ` ry where is known to fame ; Conjecture if you can , and tells its name.
THIS play 's chief charm to husbands is unknown ; ` Tis with the lover it excels alone ; No lookers-on , as umpires , are required ; No quarrels rise , though each appears inspired ; All seem delighted with the pleasing game : -- Conjecture if you can , and tell its name.
BE this as ` twill , and called whate'er it may ; No longer trifling with it I shall stay , But now disclose a method to transmit -LRB- As oft we find -RRB- to ninnies sense and wit.
Till person_1 got instruction in this school , She was regarded as a silly fool , Her exercise appeared to spin and sew : -- Not hers indeed , the hands alone would go ; For sense or wit had in it no concern ; Whate'er the foolish girl had got to learn , No part therein could ever take the mind ; Her doll , for thought , was just as well designed.
The mother would , a hundred times a day , Abuse the stupid maid , and to her say Go wretched lump and try some wit to gain.
THE girl , quite overcome with shame and pain ; Her neighbors asked to point her out the spot , Where useful wit by purchase might be got.
The simple question laughter raised around ; At length they told her , that it might be found With father Bonadventure , who 'd a stock , Which he at times disposed of to his flock.
AWAY in haste she to the cloister went , To see the friar she was quite intent , Though trembling lest she might disturb his ease ; And one of his high character displease.
The girl exclaimed , as on she moved , -- Will he Such presents willingly bestow on me , Whose age , as yet , has scarcely reached fifteen ? With such can I be worthy to be seen ? Her innocence much added to her charms , The gentle wily god of soft alarms Had not a youthful maiden in his book , That carried more temptation in her look.
MOST rev ` rend sir , said she , by friends I 'm told , That in this convent wit is often sold , Will you allow me some on trust to take ? My treasure wo n't afford that much I stake ; I can return if more I should require ; Howe'er , you 'll take this pledge I much desire ; On which she tried to give the monk a ring , That to her finger firmly seemed to cling.
BUT when the friar saw the girl 's design , He cried , good maid , the pledge we will decline , And what is wished , provide for you the same ; ` Tis merchandize , and whatsoe'er its fame , To some ` tis freely giv ` n : -- to others taught If not too dear , oft better when ` tis bought.
Come in and boldly follow where I lead ; None round can see : you 've nothing here to heed ; They 're all at prayers ; the porter 's at my will ; The very walls , of prudence have their fill.
SHE entered as the holy monk desired , And they together to his cell retired.
The friar on the bed this maiden threw ; A kiss would take : -- she from him rather drew ; And said.
-- To give one wit is this the way ? Yes , answered he , and round her ` gan to play : Upon her bosom then he put his hand What now , said she , am I to understand ? Is this the way ? -- Said he , ` tis so decreed ; Then patiently she let the monk proceed , Who followed up , from point to point , his aim ; And wit , by easy steps , advancing came , Till its progression with her was complete ; Then person_1 laughed , success appeared so sweet.
A SECOND dose the friar soon bestowed , And e ` en a third , so fast his bounty flowed.
Well , said the monk , pray how d'ye find the play ? The girl replied : wit will not long delay ; ` Twill soon arrive ; but then I fear its flight : I 'm half afraid ` twill leave me ere ` tis night.
We 'll see , rejoined the priest , that naught you lose ; But other secrets oftentimes we use.
Seek not those the smiling girl replied With this most perfectly I 'm satisfied ; Then be it so , said he , we 'll recommence , Nor longer keep the business in suspense , But to the utmost length at once advance ; For this fair person_1 showed much complaisance : The secret by the friar was renewed ; Much pleasure in it Bonadventure viewed ; The belle a courtesy dropt , and then retired , Reflecting on the wit she had acquired ; Reflecting , do you say ? -- To think inclined ? Yes , even more : -- she sought excuse to find , Not doubting that she should be forced to say , Some cause for keeping her so long away.
TWO days had passed , when came a youthful friend ; Fair Nancy with her often would unbend ; Howe'er , so very thoughtful person_1 seemed , That Nancy -LRB- who was penetrating deemed -RRB- Was well convinced whatever person_1 sought , So very absent she was not for naught.
In questioning she managed with such art , That soon she learned -- what person_1 could impart To listen she was thoroughly disposed , While t ` other ev ` ry circumstance disclosed , From first to last , each point and mystick hit , And e ` en the largeness of the friar 's wit , The repetitions , and the wondrous skill With which he managed ev ` ry thing at will.
BUT now , cried person_1 , favor me I pray , And tell at once , without reserve , the way That you obtained such wit as you possess , And all particulars to me confess.
IF I , said Nancy , must avow the truth , Your brother person_0 was the bounteous youth , Who me obliged therewith , and freely taught , What from the holy friar you 'd have bought.
My brother person_0 ! -- person_0 ! person_1 cried ; He ne'er with any was himself supplied ; I 'm all surprise ; he 's thought a heavy clot , How could he give what he had never got ? FOOL ! said the other , little thou can ` st know ; For once , to me some information owe ; In such a case much skill is not required , And person_0 freely gave what I desired.
If me thou disbeliev ` st , thy mother ask ; She thoroughly can undertake the task.
ON such a point we readily should say , Long live the fools who wit so well display !"
There was once on a time a soldier who for many years had served the King faithfully , but when the war came to an end could serve no longer because of the many wounds which he had received.
The King said to him , `` Thou mayst return to thy home , I need thee no longer , and thou wilt not receive any more money , for he only receives wages who renders me service for them"
Then the soldier did not know how to earn a living , went away greatly troubled , and walked the whole day , until in the evening he entered a forest.
When darkness came on , he saw a light , which he went up to , and came to a house wherein lived a witch.
`` Do give me one night 's lodging , and a little to eat and drink ,"
said he to her , `` or I shall starve"
`` Oho !"
she answered , `` who gives anything to a run-away soldier ? Yet will I be compassionate , and take you in , if you will do what I wish"
`` What do you wish ?"
said the soldier.
`` That you should dig all round my garden for me , tomorrow"
The soldier consented , and next day labored with all his strength , but could not finish it by the evening.
`` I see well enough ,"
said the witch , `` that you can do no more to-day , but I will keep you yet another night , in payment for which you must to-morrow chop me a load of wood , and make it small"
The soldier spent the whole day in doing it , and in the evening the witch proposed that he should stay one night more.
`` To-morrow , you shall only do me a very trifling piece of work.
Behind my house , there is an old dry well , into which my light has fallen , it burns blue , and never goes out , and you shall bring it up again for me"
Next day the old woman took him to the well , and let him down in a basket.
He found the blue light , and made her a signal to draw him up again.
She did draw him up , but when he came near the edge , she stretched down her hand and wanted to take the blue light away from him.
`` No ,"
said he , perceiving her evil intention , `` I will not give thee the light until I am standing with both feet upon the ground"
The witch fell into a passion , let him down again into the well , and went away.
The poor soldier fell without injury on the moist ground , and the blue light went on burning , but of what use was that to him ? He saw very well that he could not escape death.
He sat for a while very sorrowfully , then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his tobacco pipe , which was still half full.
`` This shall be my last pleasure ,"
thought he , pulled it out , lit it at the blue light and began to smoke.
When the smoke had circled about the cavern , suddenly a little black dwarf stood before him , and said , `` Lord , what are thy commands ?"
`` What commands have I to give thee ?"
replied the soldier , quite astonished.
`` I must do everything thou biddest me ,"
said the little man.
`` Good ,"
said the soldier ; `` then in the first place help me out of this well"
The little man took him by the hand , and led him through an underground passage , but he did not forget to take the blue light with him.
On the way the dwarf showed him the treasures which the witch had collected and hidden there , and the soldier took as much gold as he could carry.
When he was above , he said to the little man , `` Now go and bind the old witch , and carry her before the judge"
In a short time she , with frightful cries , came riding by , as swift as the wind on a wild tom-cat , nor was it long after that before the little man re-appeared.
`` It is all done ,"
said he , `` and the witch is already hanging on the gallows.
What further commands has my lord ?"
inquired the dwarf.
`` At this moment , none ,"
answered the soldier ; `` Thou canst return home , only be at hand immediately , if I summon thee"
`` Nothing more is needed than that thou shouldst light thy pipe at the blue light , and I will appear before thee at once"
Thereupon he vanished from his sight.
The soldier returned to the town from which he had come.
He went to the best inn , ordered himself handsome clothes , and then bade the landlord furnish him a room as handsomely as possible.
When it was ready and the soldier had taken possession of it , he summoned the little black mannikin and said , `` I have served the King faithfully , but he has dismissed me , and left me to hunger , and now I want to take my revenge"
`` What am I to do ?"
asked the little man.
`` Late at night , when the King 's daughter is in bed , bring her here in her sleep , she shall do servant 's work for me"
The mannikin said , `` That is an easy thing for me to do , but a very dangerous thing for you , for if it is discovered , you will fare ill"
When twelve o'clock had struck , the door sprang open , and the mannikin carried in the princess.
`` Aha ! art thou there ?"
cried the soldier , `` get to thy work at once ! Fetch the broom and sweep the chamber"
When she had done this , he ordered her to come to his chair , and then he stretched out his feet and said , `` Pull off my boots for me ,"
and then he threw them in her face , and made her pick them up again , and clean and brighten them.
She , however , did everything he bade her , without opposition , silently and with half-shut eyes.
When the first cock crowed , the mannikin carried her back to the royal palace , and laid her in her bed.
Next morning when the princess arose , she went to her father , and told him that she had had a very strange dream.
`` I was carried through the streets with the rapidity of lightning ,"
said she , `` and taken into a soldier 's room , and I had to wait upon him like a servant , sweep his room , clean his boots , and do all kinds of menial work.
It was only a dream , and yet I am just as tired as if I really had done everything"
`` The dream may have been true ,"
said the King , `` I will give thee a piece of advice.
Fill thy pocket full of peas , and make a small hole in it , and then if thou art carried away again , they will fall out and leave a track in the streets"
But unseen by the King , the mannikin was standing beside him when he said that , and heard all.
At night when the sleeping princess was again carried through the streets , some peas certainly did fall out of her pocket , but they made no track , for the crafty mannikin had just before scattered peas in every street there was.
And again the princess was compelled to do servant 's work until cock-crow.
Next morning the King sent his people out to seek the track , but it was all in vain , for in every street poor children were sitting , picking up peas , and saying , `` It must have rained peas , last night"
`` We must think of something else ,"
said the King ; `` keep thy shoes on when thou goest to bed , and before thou comest back from the place where thou art taken , hide one of them there , I will soon contrive to find it"
The black mannikin heard this plot , and at night when the soldier again ordered him to bring the princess , revealed it to him , and told him that he knew of no expedient to counteract this stratagem , and that if the shoe were found in the soldier 's house it would go badly with him.
`` Do what I bid thee ,"
replied the soldier , and again this third night the princess was obliged to work like a servant , but before she went away , she hid her shoe under the bed.
Next morning the King had the entire town searched for his daughter 's shoe.
It was found at the soldier 's , and the soldier himself , who at the entreaty of the dwarf had gone outside the gate , was soon brought back , and thrown into prison.
In his flight he had forgotten the most valuable things he had , the blue light and the gold , and had only one ducat in his pocket.
And now loaded with chains , he was standing at the window of his dungeon , when he chanced to see one of his comrades passing by.
The soldier tapped at the pane of glass , and when this man came up , said to him , `` Be so kind as to fetch me the small bundle I have left lying in the inn , and I will give you a ducat for doing it"
His comrade ran thither and brought him what he wanted.
As soon as the soldier was alone again , he lighted his pipe and summoned the black mannikin.
`` Have no fear ,"
said the latter to his master.
`` Go wheresoever they take you , and let them do what they will , only take the blue light with you"
Next day the soldier was tried , and though he had done nothing wicked , the judge condemned him to death.
When he was led forth to die , he begged a last favor of the King.
`` What is it ?"
asked the King.
`` That I may smoke one more pipe on my way"
`` Thou mayst smoke three ,"
answered the King , `` but do not imagine that I will spare thy life"
Then the soldier pulled out his pipe and lighted it at the blue light , and as soon as a few wreaths of smoke had ascended , the mannikin was there with a small cudgel in his hand , and said , `` What does my lord command ?"
`` Strike down to earth that false judge there , and his constable , and spare not the King who has treated me so ill"
Then the mannikin fell on them like lightning , darting this way and that way , and whosoever was so much as touched by his cudgel fell to earth , and did not venture to stir again.
The King was terrified ; he threw himself on the soldier 's mercy , and merely to be allowed to live at all , gave him his kingdom for his own , and the princess to wife"
A countryman one day said to his little puppies , `` Come into the parlor and enjoy yourselves , and pick up the bread-crumbs on the table ; your mistress has gone out to pay some visits"
Then the little dogs said , `` No , no , we will not go.
If the mistress gets to know it , she will beat us"
The countryman said , `` She will know nothing about it.
Do come ; after all , she never gives you anything good"
Then the little dogs again said , `` Nay , nay , we must let it alone ; we must not go"
But the countryman let them have no peace until at last they went , and got on the table , and ate up the bread-crumbs with all their might.
But at that very moment the mistress came , and seized the stick in great haste , and beat them and treated them very hardly.
And when they were outside the house , the little dogs said to the countryman , `` Dost , dost , dost , dost , dost thou see ?"
Then the countryman laughed and said , `` Did n't , did n't , did n't , you expect it ?"
So they just had to run away"
There was once a young shepherd who wished much to marry , and was acquainted with three sisters who were all equally pretty , so that it was difficult to him to make a choice , and he could not decide to give the preference to any one of them.
Then he asked his mother for advice , and she said , `` Invite all three , and set some cheese before them , and watch how they eat it"
The youth did so ; the first , however , swallowed the cheese with the rind on ; the second hastily cut the rind off the cheese , but she cut it so quickly that she left much good cheese with it , and threw that away also ; the third peeled the rind off carefully , and cut neither too much nor too little.
The shepherd told all this to his mother , who said , `` Take the third for thy wife"
This he did , and lived contentedly and happily with her"
Now , evaporated apples are nothing more or less than dried apples.
The cook of the loggers ' camp used them to make apple pies.
And first , before making his pies , he always soaked them in water so they would swell.
Now you see what made person_0 Coon feel so queer and uncomfortable.
He had first eaten his dried apples.
And then he had soaked them , by drinking out of the brook.
It was no wonder that his sides stuck out , for the apples that he had bolted were swelling and puffing him out until he felt that he should burst.
In fact , the wonder of it was that he was able to get through his mother 's doorway , when he reached home.
But he did it , though it cost him a few groans.
And he frightened his mother , too.
`` I only hope you 're not poisoned ,"
she said , when person_0 told her what he had been doing.
And that remark frightened person_0 more than ever.
He was sure he was never going to feel any better.
Poor Mrs.
Coon was much worried all the rest of the night.
But when morning came she knew that person_0 was out of danger.
She knew it because of something he said.
It was this : `` Oh , dear ! I wish I had something to eat !"
Once on a time a poor pious peasant died , and arrived before the gate of heaven.
At the same time a very rich , rich lord came there who also wanted to get into heaven.
Then Saint Peter came with the key , and opened the door , and let the great man in , but apparently did not see the peasant , and shut the door again.
And now the peasant outside , heard how the great man was received in heaven with all kinds of rejoicing , and how they were making music , and singing within.
At length all became quiet again , and Saint Peter came and opened the gate of heaven , and let the peasant in.
The peasant , however , expected that they would make music and sing when he went in also , but all remained quite quiet ; he was received with great affection , it is true , and the angels came to meet him , but no one sang.
Then the peasant asked Saint Peter how it was that they did not sing for him as they had done when the rich man went in , and said that it seemed to him that there in heaven things were done with just as much partiality as on earth.
Then said Saint Peter , `` By no means , thou art just as dear to us as any one else , and wilt enjoy every heavenly delight that the rich man enjoys , but poor fellows like thee come to heaven every day , but a rich man like this does not come more than once in a hundred years !"
Wandering through the woods one day , person_0 Coon 's bright eyes caught a strange gleam from something -- something that shone and glittered out of the green.
person_0 wanted to see what it was , though he hardly thought it was anything to eat.
But whenever he came upon something new he always wanted to examine it.
So now person_0 hurried to see what the strange thing was.
It was the oddest thing he had ever found -- flat , round , and silvery ; and it hung in the air , under a tree , just over person_0 's head.
person_0 Coon looked carefully at the bright thing.
He walked all around it , so he could see it from all sides.
And at last he thought he knew what it was.
He made up his mind that it was the moon ! He had often seen the moon up in the sky ; and here it was , just the same size exactly , hanging so low that he could have reached it with his paw.
He saw nothing strange in that ; for he knew that the moon often touched the earth.
Had he not seen it many a time , resting on the side of Blue Mountain ? One night he had asked his mother if he might go up on the mountain to play with the moon ; but she had only laughed.
And here , at last , was the moon come to him ! person_0 was so excited that he ran home as fast as he could go , to tell his mother , and his brother Blackie , and Fluffy and Cutey , his sisters.
`` Oh ! the moon ! the moon !"
person_0 shouted.
He had run so fast that , being so plump , he was quite out of breath.
And that was all he could say.
`` Well , well ! What about the moon !"
person_1.
Coon asked.
`` Anybody would think you had found it , almost"
And she smiled.
person_0 puffed and gasped.
And at last he caught his breath again.
`` Yes -- I 've found it ! It 's over in the woods -- just a little way from here !"
he said.
`` Big , and round , and shiny ! Let 's all go and bring it home !"
`` Well , well , well !"
person_1.
Coon was puzzled.
She had never heard of the moon being found in those woods ; and she hardly knew what to think.
`` Are you sure ?"
she asked.
`` Oh , yes , Mother !"
person_0 could hardly wait , he was so eager to lead the way.
And with many a shake of the head , person_1.
Coon , with her family , started off to see the moon.
`` There !"
person_0 cried , as they came in sight of the bright , round thing.
`` There it is -- just as I told you !"
And they all set up a great shouting.
All but person_1.
Coon.
She was n't quite sure , even yet , that person_0 had really found the moon.
And she walked close to the shining thing and peered at it.
But not too close ! person_1.
Coon did n't go too near it.
And she told her children quite sternly to stand back.
It was well that she did ; for when person_1.
Coon took her eyes off person_0 's moon and looked at the ground beneath it -- well ! she jumped back so quickly that she knocked two of her children flat on the ground.
A trap ! THAT was what person_1.
Coon saw right in front of her.
And Farmer Green , or his boy , or whoever it was that set the trap , had hung that bright piece of TIN over the trap hoping that one of her family would see it and play with it -- and fall into the trap.
Yes -- it was a mercy that person_0 had n't begun knocking it about.
For if he had he would have stepped right into the trap and it would have shut -- SNAP ! Just like that.
And there he would have been , caught fast.
It was no wonder that person_1.
Coon hurried her family away from that spot.
And person_0 led them all home again.
He could n't get away from his moon fast enough"
Once on a time the fox was talking to the wolf of the strength of man ; how no animal could withstand him , and how all were obliged to employ cunning in order to preserve themselves from him.
Then the wolf answered , `` If I had but the chance of seeing a man for once , I would set on him notwithstanding"
`` I can help thee to do that ,"
said the fox.
`` Come to me early to-morrow morning , and I will show thee one"
The wolf presented himself betimes , and the fox took him out on the road by which the huntsmen went daily.
First came an old discharged soldier.
`` Is that a man ?"
inquired the wolf.
`` No ,"
answered the fox , `` that was one"
Afterwards came a little boy who was going to school.
`` Is that a man ?"
`` No , that is going to be one"
At length came a hunter with his double-barrelled gun at his back , and hanger by his side.
Said the fox to the wolf , `` Look , there comes a man , thou must attack him , but I will take myself off to my hole"
The wolf then rushed on the man.
When the huntsman saw him he said , `` It is a pity that I have not loaded with a bullet ,"
aimed , and fired his small shot in his face.
The wolf pulled a very wry face , but did not let himself be frightened , and attacked him again , on which the huntsman gave him the second barrel.
The wolf swallowed his pain , and rushed on the huntsman , but he drew out his bright hanger , and gave him a few cuts with it right and left , so that , bleeding everywhere , he ran howling back to the fox.
`` Well , brother wolf ,"
said the fox , `` how hast thou got on with man ?"
`` Ah !"
replied the wolf , `` I never imagined the strength of man to be what it is ! First , he took a stick from his shoulder , and blew into it , and then something flew into my face which tickled me terribly ; then he breathed once more into the stick , and it flew into my nose like lightning and hail ; when I was quite close , he drew a white rib out of his side , and he beat me so with it that I was all but left lying dead"
`` See what a braggart thou art !"
said the fox.
`` Thou throwest thy hatchet so far that thou canst not fetch it back again !"
There was once a forester who went into the forest to hunt , and as he entered it he heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were there.
He followed the sound , and at last came to a high tree , and at the top of this a little child was sitting , for the mother had fallen asleep under the tree with the child , and a bird of prey had seen it in her arms , had flown down , snatched it away , and set it on the high tree.
The forester climbed up , brought the child down , and thought to himself , `` Thou wilt take him home with thee , and bring him up with thy Lina"
He took it home , therefore , and the two children grew up together.
The one , however , which he had found on a tree was called Fundevogel , because a bird had carried it away.
Fundevogel and Lina loved each other so dearly that when they did not see each other they were sad.
The forester , however , had an old cook , who one evening took two pails and began to fetch water , and did not go once only , but many times , out to the spring.
Lina saw this and said , `` Hark you , old Sanna , why are you fetching so much water ?"
`` If thou wilt never repeat it to anyone , I will tell thee why"
So Lina said , no , she would never repeat it to anyone , and then the cook said , `` Early to-morrow morning , when the forester is out hunting , I will heat the water , and when it is boiling in the kettle , I will throw in Fundevogel , and will boil him in it"
Betimes next morning the forester got up and went out hunting , and when he was gone the children were still in bed.
Then Lina said to Fundevogel , `` If thou wilt never leave me , I too will never leave thee"
Fundevogel said , `` Neither now , nor ever will I leave thee"
Then said Lina , `` Then I will tell thee.
Last night , old Sanna carried so many buckets of water into the house that I asked her why she was doing that , and she said that if I would promise not to tell any one she would tell me , and I said I would be sure not to tell any one , and she said that early to-morrow morning when father was out hunting , she would set the kettle full of water , throw thee into it and boil thee ; but we will get up quickly , dress ourselves , and go away together"
The two children therefore got up , dressed themselves quickly , and went away.
When the water in the kettle was boiling , the cook went into the bed-room to fetch Fundevogel and throw him into it.
But when she came in , and went to the beds , both the children were gone.
Then she was terribly alarmed , and she said to herself , `` What shall I say now when the forester comes home and sees that the children are gone ? They must be followed instantly to get them back again"
Then the cook sent three servants after them , who were to run and overtake the children.
The children , however , were sitting outside the forest , and when they saw from afar the three servants running , Lina said to Fundevogel , `` Never leave me , and I will never leave thee"
Fundevogel said , `` Neither now , nor ever"
Then said Lina , `` Do thou become a rose-tree , and I the rose upon it"
When the three servants came to the forest , nothing was there but a rose-tree and one rose on it , but the children were nowhere.
Then said they , `` There is nothing to be done here ,"
and they went home and told the cook that they had seen nothing in the forest but a little rose-bush with one rose on it.
Then the old cook scolded and said , `` You simpletons , you should have cut the rose-bush in two , and have broken off the rose and brought it home with you ; go , and do it once"
They had therefore to go out and look for the second time.
The children , however , saw them coming from a distance.
Then Lina said , `` Fundevogel , never leave me , and I will never leave thee"
Fundevogel said , `` Neither now , nor ever"
Said Lina , `` Then do thou become a church , and I 'll be the chandelier in it"
So when the three servants came , nothing was there but a church , with a chandelier in it.
They said therefore to each other , `` What can we do here , let us go home"
When they got home , the cook asked if they had not found them ; so they said no , they had found nothing but a church , and that there was a chandelier in it.
And the cook scolded them and said , `` You fools ! why did you not pull the church to pieces , and bring the chandelier home with you ?"
And now the old cook herself got on her legs , and went with the three servants in pursuit of the children.
The children , however , saw from afar that the three servants were coming , and the cook waddling after them.
Then said Lina , `` Fundevogel , never leave me , and I will never leave thee"
Then said Fundevogel , `` Neither now , nor ever"
Said Lina , `` Be a fishpond , and I will be the duck upon it"
The cook , however , came up to them , and when she saw the pond she lay down by it , and was about to drink it up.
But the duck swam quickly to her , seized her head in its beak and drew her into the water , and there the old witch had to drown.
Then the children went home together , and were heartily delighted , and if they are not dead , they are living still"
There was once a cook named Grethel , who wore shoes with red rosettes , and when she walked out with them on , she turned herself this way and that , and thought , `` You certainly are a pretty girl !"
And when she came home she drank , in her gladness of heart , a draught of wine , and as wine excites a desire to eat , she tasted the best of whatever she was cooking until she was satisfied , and said , `` The cook must know what the food is like"
It came to pass that the master one day said to her , `` Grethel , there is a guest coming this evening ; prepare me two fowls very daintily"
`` I will see to it , master ,"
answered Grethel.
She killed two fowls , scalded them , plucked them , put them on the spit , and towards evening set them before the fire , that they might roast.
The fowls began to turn brown , and were nearly ready , but the guest had not yet arrived.
Then Grethel called out to her master , `` If the guest does not come , I must take the fowls away from the fire , but it will be a sin and a shame if they are not eaten directly , when they are juiciest"
The master said , `` I will run myself , and fetch the guest"
When the master had turned his back , Grethel laid the spit with the fowls on one side , and thought , `` Standing so long by the fire there , makes one hot and thirsty ; who knows when they will come ? Meanwhile , I will run into the cellar , and take a drink"
She ran down , set a jug , said , `` God bless it to thy use , Grethel ,"
and took a good drink , and took yet another hearty draught.
Then she went and put the fowls down again to the fire , basted them , and drove the spit merrily round.
But as the roast meat smelt so good , Grethel thought , `` Something might be wrong , it ought to be tasted !"
She touched it with her finger , and said , `` Ah ! how good fowls are ! It certainly is a sin and a shame that they are not eaten directly !"
She ran to the window , to see if the master was not coming with his guest , but she saw no one , and went back to the fowls and thought , `` One of the wings is burning ! I had better take it off and eat it"
So she cut it off , ate it , and enjoyed it , and when she had done , she thought , `` the other must go down too , or else master will observe that something is missing"
When the two wings were eaten , she went and looked for her master , and did not see him.
It suddenly occurred to her , `` Who knows ? They are perhaps not coming at all , and have turned in somewhere"
Then she said , `` Hallo , Grethel , enjoy yourself , one fowl has been cut into , take another drink , and eat it up entirely ; when it is eaten you will have some peace , why should God 's good gifts be spoilt ?"
So she ran into the cellar again , took an enormous drink and ate up the one chicken in great glee.
When one of the chickens was swallowed down , and still her master did not come , Grethel looked at the other and said , `` Where one is , the other should be likewise , the two go together ; what 's right for the one is right for the other ; I think if I were to take another draught it would do me no harm"
So she took another hearty drink , and let the second chicken rejoin the first.
While she was just in the best of the eating , her master came and cried , hurry up , `` Haste thee , Grethel , the guest is coming directly after me !"
`` Yes , sir , I will soon serve up ,"
answered Grethel.
Meantime the master looked to see that the table was properly laid , and took the great knife , wherewith he was going to carve the chickens , and sharpened it on the steps.
Presently the guest came , and knocked politely and courteously at the house-door.
Grethel ran , and looked to see who was there , and when she saw the guest , she put her finger to her lips and said , `` Hush ! hush ! get away as quickly as you can , if my master catches you it will be the worse for you ; he certainly did ask you to supper , but his intention is to cut off your two ears.
Just listen how he is sharpening the knife for it !"
The guest heard the sharpening , and hurried down the steps again as fast as he could.
Grethel was not idle ; she ran screaming to her master , and cried , `` You have invited a fine guest !"
`` Eh , why , Grethel ? What do you mean by that ?"
`` Yes ,"
said she , `` he has taken the chickens which I was just going to serve up , off the dish , and has run away with them !"
`` That 's a nice trick !"
said her master , and lamented the fine chickens.
`` If he had but left me one , so that something remained for me to eat"
He called to him to stop , but the guest pretended not to hear.
Then he ran after him with the knife still in his hand , crying , `` Just one , just one ,"
meaning that the guest should leave him just one chicken , and not take both.
The guest , however , thought no otherwise than that he was to give up one of his ears , and ran as if fire were burning under him , in order to take them both home with him"
When God had created the world and was about to fix the length of each creature 's life , the ass came and asked , `` Lord , how long shall I live ?"
`` Thirty years ,"
replied God ; `` does that content thee ?"
`` Ah , Lord ,"
answered the ass , `` that is a long time.
Think of my painful existence ! To carry heavy burdens from morning to night , to drag sacks of corn to the mill , that others may eat bread , to be cheered and refreshed with nothing but blows and kicks.
Relieve me of a portion of this long time"
Then God had pity on him and relieved him of eighteen years.
The ass went away comforted , and the dog appeared.
`` How long wouldst thou like to live ?"
said God to him.
`` Thirty years are too many for the ass , but thou wilt be satisfied with that"
`` Lord ,"
answered the dog , `` is that thy will ? Consider how I shall have to run , my feet will never hold out so long , and when I have once lost my voice for barking , and my teeth for biting , what will be left for me to do but run from one corner to another and growl ?"
God saw that he was right , and released him from twelve years of life.
Then came the monkey.
`` Thou wilt certainly live thirty years willingly ?"
said the Lord to him.
`` Thou hast no need to work as the ass and the dog have to do , and wilt always enjoy thyself"
`` Ah ! Lord ,"
he answered , `` it may seem as if that were the case , but it is quite different.
When it rains porridge I have no spoon.
I am always to play merry pranks , and make faces which force people to laugh , and if they give me an apple , and I bite into it , why it is sour ! How often sadness hides itself behind mirth ! I shall never be able to hold out for thirty years"
God was gracious and took off ten.
At last man appeared , joyous , healthy and vigorous , and begged God to appoint his time for him.
`` Thirty years shalt thou live ,"
said the Lord.
`` Is that enough for thee ?"
`` What a short time ,"
cried man , `` when I have built my house and my fire burns on my own hearth ; when I have planted trees which blossom and bear fruit , and am just intending to enjoy my life , I am to die ! O Lord , lengthen my time"
`` I will add to it the ass 's eighteen years ,"
said God.
`` That is not enough ,"
replied the man.
`` Thou shalt also have the dog 's twelve years"
`` Still too little !"
`` Well , then ,"
said God , `` I will give thee the monkey 's ten years also , but more thou shalt not have"
The man went away , but was not satisfied.
So man lives seventy years.
The first thirty are his human years , which are soon gone ; then is he healthy , merry , works with pleasure , and is glad of his life.
Then follow the ass 's eighteen years , when one burden after another is laid on him , he has to carry the corn which feeds others , and blows and kicks are the reward of his faithful services.
Then come the dog 's twelve years , when he lies in the corner , and growls and has no longer any teeth to bite with , and when this time is over the monkey 's ten years form the end.
Then man is weak-headed and foolish , does silly things , and becomes the jest of the children"
There was once on a time a King who had a daughter , and he caused a glass mountain to be made , and said that whosoever could cross to the other side of it without falling should have his daughter to wife.
Then there was one who loved the King 's daughter , and he asked the King if he might have her.
`` Yes ,"
said the King ; `` if you can cross the mountain without falling , you shall have her"
And the princess said she would go over it with him , and would hold him if he were about to fall.
So they set out together to go over it , and when they were half way up the princess slipped and fell , and the glass-mountain opened and shut her up inside it , and her betrothed could not see where she had gone , for the mountain closed immediately.
Then he wept and lamented much , and the King was miserable too , and had the mountain broken open where she had been lost , and though the would be able to get her out again , but they could not find the place into which she had fallen.
Meanwhile the King 's daughter had fallen quite deep down into the earth into a great cave.
An old fellow with a very long gray beard came to meet her , and told her that if she would be his servant and do everything he bade her , she might live , if not he would kill her.
So she did all he bade her.
In the mornings he took his ladder out of his pocket , and set it up against the mountain and climbed to the top by its help , and then he drew up the ladder after him.
The princess had to cook his dinner , make his bed , and do all his work , and when he came home again he always brought with him a heap of gold and silver.
When she had lived with him for many years , and had grown quite old , he called her Mother Mansrot , and she had to call him Old Rinkrank.
Then once when he was out , and she had made his bed and washed his dishes , she shut the doors and windows all fast , and there was one little window through which the light shone in , and this she left open.
When Old Rinkrank came home , he knocked at his door , and cried , `` Mother Mansrot , open the door for me"
`` No ,"
said she , `` Old Rinkrank , I will not open the door for thee"
Then he said , `` Here stand I , poor Rinkrank , On my seventeen long shanks , On my weary , worn-out foot , Wash my dishes , Mother Mansrot"
`` I have washed thy dishes already ,"
said she.
Then again he said , `` Here stand I , poor Rinkrank , On my seventeen long shanks , On my weary , worn-out foot , Make me my bed , Mother Mansrot"
`` I have made thy bed already ,"
said she.
Then again he said , `` Here stand I , poor Rinkrank , On my seventeen long shanks , On my weary , worn-out foot , Open the door , Mother Mansrot"
Then he ran all round his house , and saw that the little window was open , and thought , `` I will look in and see what she can be about , and why she will not open the door for me"
He tried to peep in , but could not get his head through because of his long beard.
So he first put his beard through the open window , but just as he had got it through , Mother Mansrot came by and pulled the window down with a cord which she had tied to it , and his beard was shut fast in it.
Then he began to cry most piteously , for it hurt him very much , and to entreat her to release him again.
But she said not until he gave her the ladder with which he ascended the mountain.
Then , whether he would or not , he had to tell her where the ladder was.
And she fastened a very long ribbon to the window , and then she set up the ladder , and ascended the mountain , and when she was at the top of it she opened the window.
She went to her father , and told him all that had happened to her.
The King rejoiced greatly , and her betrothed was still there , and they went and dug up the mountain , and found Old Rinkrank inside it with all his gold and silver.
Then the King had Old Rinkrank put to death , and took all his gold and silver.
The princess married her betrothed , and lived right happily in great magnificence and joy"
In a certain village there once lived a man and his wife , and the wife was so idle that she would never work at anything ; whatever her husband gave her to spin , she did not get done , and what she did spin she did not wind , but let it all remain entangled in a heap.
If the man scolded her , she was always ready with her tongue , and said , `` Well , how should I wind it , when I have no reel ? Just you go into the forest and get me one"
`` If that is all ,"
said the man , `` then I will go into the forest , and get some wood for making reels"
Then the woman was afraid that if he had the wood he would make her a reel of it , and she would have to wind her yarn off , and then begin to spin again.
She bethought herself a little , and then a lucky idea occurred to her , and she secretly followed the man into the forest , and when he had climbed into a tree to choose and cut the wood , she crept into the thicket below where he could not see her , and cried , `` He who cuts wood for reels shall die , And he who winds , shall perish"
The man listened , laid down his axe for a moment , and began to consider what that could mean.
`` Hollo ,"
he said at last , `` what can that have been ; my ears must have been singing , I wo n't alarm myself for nothing"
So he again seized the axe , and began to hew , then again there came a cry from below : `` He who cuts wood for reels shall die , And he who winds , shall perish"
He stopped , and felt afraid and alarmed , and pondered over the circumstance.
But when a few moments had passed , he took heart again , and a third time he stretched out his hand for the axe , and began to cut.
But some one called out a third time , and said loudly , `` He who cuts wood for reels shall die , And he who winds , shall perish"
That was enough for him , and all inclination had departed from him , so he hastily descended the tree , and set out on his way home.
The woman ran as fast as she could by by-ways so as to get home first.
So when he entered the parlor , she put on an innocent look as if nothing had happened , and said , `` Well , have you brought a nice piece of wood for reels ?"
`` No ,"
said he , `` I see very well that winding wo n't do ,"
and told her what had happened to him in the forest , and from that time forth left her in peace about it.
Neverthless after some time , the man again began to complain of the disorder in the house.
`` Wife ,"
said he , `` it is really a shame that the spun yarn should lie there all entangled !"
`` I 'll tell you what ,"
said she , `` as we still do n't come by any reel , go you up into the loft , and I will stand down below , and will throw the yarn up to you , and you will throw it down to me , and so we shall get a skein after all"
`` Yes , that will do ,"
said the man.
So they did that , and when it was done , he said , `` The yarn is in skeins , now it must be boiled"
The woman was again distressed ; She certainly said , `` Yes , we will boil it next morning early"
but she was secretly contriving another trick.
Early in the morning she got up , lighted a fire , and put the kettle on , only instead of the yarn , she put in a lump of tow , and let it boil.
After that she went to the man who was still lying in bed , and said to him , `` I must just go out , you must get up and look after the yarn which is in the kettle on the fire , but you must be at hand at once ; mind that , for if the cock should happen to crow , and you are not attending to the yarn , it will become tow"
The man was willing and took good care not to loiter.
He got up as quickly as he could , and went into the kitchen.
But when he reached the kettle and peeped in , he saw , to his horror , nothing but a lump of tow.
Then the poor man was as still as a mouse , thinking he had neglected it , and was to blame , and in future said no more about yarn and spinning.
But you yourself must own she was an odious woman !"
A poor servant-girl was once traveling with the family with which she was in service , through a great forest , and when they were in the midst of it , robbers came out of the thicket , and murdered all they found.
All perished together except the girl , who had jumped out of the carriage in a fright , and hidden herself behind a tree.
When the robbers had gone away with their booty , she came out and beheld the great disaster.
Then she began to weep bitterly , and said , `` What can a poor girl like me do now ? I do not know how to get out of the forest , no human being lives in it , so I must certainly starve"
She walked about and looked for a road , but could find none.
When it was evening she seated herself under a tree , gave herself into God 's keeping , and resolved to sit waiting there and not go away , let what might happen.
When , however , she had sat there for a while , a white dove came flying to her with a little golden key in its mouth.
It put the little key in her hand , and said , `` Dost thou see that great tree , therein is a little lock , it opens with the tiny key , and there thou wilt find food enough , and suffer no more hunger"
Then she went to the tree and opened it , and found milk in a little dish , and white bread to break into it , so that she could eat her fill.
When she was satisfied , she said , `` It is now the time when the hens at home go to roost , I am so tired I could go to bed too"
Then the dove flew to her again , and brought another golden key in its bill , and said , `` Open that tree there , and thou willt find a bed"
So she opened it , and found a beautiful white bed , and she prayed God to protect her during the night , and lay down and slept.
In the morning the dove came for the third time , and again brought a little key , and said , `` Open that tree there , and thou wilt find clothes"
And when she opened it , she found garments beset with gold and with jewels , more splendid than those of any king 's daughter.
So she lived there for some time , and the dove came every day and provided her with all she needed , and it was a quiet good life.
Once , however , the dove came and said , `` Wilt thou do something for my sake ?"
`` With all my heart ,"
said the girl.
Then said the little dove , `` I will guide thee to a small house ; enter it , and inside it , an old woman will be sitting by the fire and will say , ` Good-day.
' But on thy life give her no answer , let her do what she will , but pass by her on the right side ; further on , there is a door , which open , and thou wilt enter into a room where a quantity of rings of all kinds are lying , amongst which are some magnificent ones with shining stones ; leave them , however , where they are , and seek out a plain one , which must likewise be amongst them , and bring it here to me as quickly as thou canst"
The girl went to the little house , and came to the door.
There sat an old woman who stared when she saw her , and said , `` Good-day my child"
The girl gave her no answer , and opened the door.
`` Whither away ,"
cried the old woman , and seized her by the gown , and wanted to hold her fast , saying , `` That is my house ; no one can go in there if I choose not to allow it"
But the girl was silent , got away from her , and went straight into the room.
Now there lay on the table an enormous quantity of rings , which gleamed and glittered before her eyes.
She turned them over and looked for the plain one , but could not find it.
While she was seeking , she saw the old woman and how she was stealing away , and wanting to get off with a bird-cage which she had in her hand.
So she went after her and took the cage out of her hand , and when she raised it up and looked into it , a bird was inside which had the plain ring in its bill.
Then she took the ring , and ran quite joyously home with it , and thought the little white dove would come and get the ring , but it did not.
Then she leaned against a tree and determined to wait for the dove , and , as she thus stood , it seemed just as if the tree was soft and pliant , and was letting its branches down.
And suddenly the branches twined around her , and were two arms , and when she looked round , the tree was a handsome man , who embraced and kissed her heartily , and said , `` Thou hast delivered me from the power of the old woman , who is a wicked witch.
She had changed me into a tree , and every day for two hours I was a white dove , and so long as she possessed the ring I could not regain my human form"
Then his servants and his horses , who had likewise been changed into trees , were freed from the enchantment also , and stood beside him.
And he led them forth to his kingdom , for he was a King 's son , and they married , and lived happily"
I designed , after my first voyage , to spend the rest of my days at Bagdad ; but it was not long ere I grew weary of a quiet life.
My inclination to trade revived.
I bought goods suited to the commerce I intended , and put to sea a second time , with merchants of known probity.
We embarked on board a good ship , and after recommending ourselves to God , set sail.
We traded from island to island , and exchanged commodities with great profit.
One day we landed on an island covered with several sorts of fruit trees , but so unpeopled , that we could see neither man nor beast upon it.
We went to take a little fresh air in the meadows , and along the streams that watered them.
Whilst some diverted themselves with gathering flowers , and others with gathering fruits , I took my wine and provisions , and sat down by a stream betwixt two great trees , which formed a curious shape.
I made a very good meal , and afterwards fell asleep.
I can not tell how long I slept , but when I awoke the ship was gone.
I was very much surprised to find the ship gone.
I got up and looked about everywhere , and could not see one of the merchants who landed with me.
At last I perceived the ship under sail , but at such a distance that I lost sight of her in a very little time.
I leave you to guess at my melancholy reflections in this sad condition.
I was ready to die with grief : I cried out sadly , beat my head and breast , and threw myself down upon the ground , where I lay some time in a terrible agony.
I upbraided myself a hundred times for not being content with the produce of my first voyage , that might well have served me all my life.
But all this was in vain , and my repentance out of season.
At last I resigned myself to the will of God ; and not knowing what to do , I climbed up to the top of a great tree , from whence I looked about on all sides to see if there was anything that could give me hope.
When I looked towards the sea , I could see nothing but sky and water , but looking towards the land I saw something white ; and , coming down from the tree , I took up what provision I had left and went towards it , the distance being so great that I could not distinguish what it was.
When I came nearer , I thought it to be a white bowl of a prodigious height and bigness ; and when I came up to it I touched it , and found it to be very smooth.
I went round to see if it was open on any side , but saw it was not , and that there was no climbing up to the top of it , it was so smooth.
It was at least fifty paces round.
By this time the sun was ready to set , and all of a sudden the sky became as dark as if it had been covered with a thick cloud.
I was much astonished at this sudden darkness , but much more when I found it was occasioned by a bird , of a monstrous size , that came flying toward me.
I remembered a fowl , called roc , that I had often heard mariners speak of , and conceived that the great bowl , which I so much admired , must needs be its egg.
In short , the bird lighted , and sat over the egg to hatch it.
As I perceived her coming , I crept close to the egg , so that I had before me one of the legs of the bird , which was as big as the trunk of a tree.
I tied myself strongly to it with the cloth that went round my turban , in hopes that when the roc flew away next morning she would carry me with her out of this desert island.
And after having passed the night in this condition , the bird really flew away next morning , as soon as it was day , and carried me so high that I could not see the earth.
Then she descended all of a sudden , with so much rapidity that I lost my senses ; but when the roc was settled , and I found myself upon the ground , I speedily untied the knot , and had scarcely done so when the bird , having taken up a serpent of a monstrous length in her bill , flew away.
The place where she left me was a very deep valley , encompassed on all sides with mountains , so high that they seemed to reach above the clouds , and so full of steep rocks that there was no possibility of getting out of the valley.
This was a new perplexity , so that when I compared this place with the desert island from which the roc brought me , I found that I had gained nothing by the change.
As I walked through this valley I perceived it was strewn with diamonds , some of which were of surprising bigness.
I took a great deal of pleasure in looking at them ; but speedily I saw at a distance such objects as very much diminished my satisfaction , and which I could not look upon without terror ; they were a great number of serpents , so big and so long that the least of them was capable of swallowing an elephant.
They retired in the day-time to their dens , where they hid themselves from the roc , their enemy , and did not come out but in the night-time.
I spent the day in walking about the valley , resting myself at times in such places as I thought most suitable.
When night came on I went into a cave , where I thought I might be in safety.
I stopped the mouth of it , which was low and straight , with a great stone , to preserve me from the serpents , but not so exactly fitted as to hinder light from coming in.
I supped on part of my provisions , but the serpents , which began to appear , hissing about in the meantime , put me into such extreme fear that you may easily imagine I did not sleep.
When day appeared the serpents retired , and I came out of the cave trembling.
I can justly say that I walked a long time upon diamonds without feeling an inclination to touch any of them.
At last I sat down , and notwithstanding my uneasiness , not having shut my eyes during the night , I fell asleep , after having eaten a little more of my provisions ; but I had scarcely shut my eyes when something that fell by me with great noise awakened me.
This was a great piece of fresh meat , and at the same time I saw several others fall down from the rocks in different places.
I had always looked upon it as a fable when I heard mariners and others discourse of the valley of diamonds , and of the stratagems made use of by some merchants to get jewels from thence ; but now I found it to be true.
For , in reality , those merchants come to the neighborhood of this valley when the eagles have young ones , and throwing great joints of meat into the valley , the diamonds , upon whose points they fall , stick to them ; the eagles , which are stronger in this country than anywhere else , pounce with great force upon those pieces of meat , and carry them to their nests upon the top of the rocks to feed their young with , at which time the merchants , running to their nests , frighten the eagles by their noise , and take away the diamonds that stick to the meat.
And this stratagem they make use of to get the diamonds out of the valley , which is surrounded with such precipices that nobody can enter it.
I believed till then that it was not possible for me to get out of this abyss , which I looked upon as my grave ; but now I changed my mind , for the falling in of those pieces of meat put me in hopes of a way of saving my life.
I began to gather together the largest diamonds that I could see , and put them into the leathern bag in which I used to carry my provisions.
I afterwards took the largest piece of meat I could find , tied it close round me with the cloth of my turban , and then laid myself upon the ground , with my face downward , the bag of diamonds being tied fast to my girdle , so that it could not possibly drop off.
I had scarcely laid me down before the eagles came.
Each of them seized a piece of meat , and one of the strongest having taken me up , with a piece of meat on my back , carried me to his nest on the top of the mountain.
The merchants fell straightway to shouting , to frighten the eagles ; and when they had obliged them to quit their prey , one of them came to the nest where I was.
He was very much afraid when he saw me , but recovering himself , instead of inquiring how I came thither , he began to quarrel with me , and asked why I stole his goods.
` You will treat me , ' replied I , ` with more civility when you know me better.
Do not trouble yourself ; I have diamonds enough for you and myself too , more than all the other merchants together.
If they have any , it is by chance ; but I chose myself in the bottom of the valley all those which you see in this bag ' ; and having spoken those words , I showed them to him.
I had scarcely done speaking , when the other merchants came trooping about us , much astonished to see me ; but they were much more surprised when I told them my story.
Yet they did not so much admire my stratagem to save myself as my courage to attempt it.
They took me to the place where they were staying all together , and there having opened my bag , they were surprised at the largeness of my diamonds , and confessed that in all the courts where they had been they had never seen any that came near them.
I prayed the merchant to whom the nest belonged -LRB- for every merchant had his own -RRB- , to take as many for his share as he pleased.
He contented himself with one , and that too the least of them ; and when I pressed him to take more , without fear of doing me any injury , ` No , ' said he , ` I am very well satisfied with this , which is valuable enough to save me the trouble of making any more voyages to raise as great a fortune as I desire.
' I spent the night with those merchants , to whom I told my story a second time , for the satisfaction of those who had not heard it.
I could not moderate my joy when I found myself delivered from the danger I have mentioned.
I thought I was in a dream , and could scarcely believe myself to be out of danger.
The merchants had thrown their pieces of meat into the valley for several days , and each of them being satisfied with the diamonds that had fallen to his lot , we left the place next morning all together , and traveled near high mountains , where there were serpents of a prodigious length , which we had the good fortune to escape.
We took ship at the nearest port and came to the Isle of Roha , where the trees grow that yield camphor.
This tree is so large , and its branches so thick , that a hundred men may easily sit under its shade.
The juice of which the camphor is made runs out from a hole bored in the upper part of the tree , is received in a vessel , where it grows thick , and becomes what we call camphor ; and the juice thus drawn out the tree withers and dies.
There is in this island the rhinoceros , a creature less than the elephant , but greater than the buffalo ; it has a horn upon its nose about a cubit long ; this horn is solid , and cleft in the middle from one end to the other , and there are upon it white lines , representing the figure of a man.
The rhinoceros fights with the elephant , runs his horn into him , and carries him off upon his head ; but the blood of the elephant running into his eyes and making him blind , he falls to the ground , and then , strange to relate , the roc comes and carries them both away in her claws to be food for her young ones.
Here I exchanged some of my diamonds for good merchandise.
From thence we went to other isles , and at last , having touched at several trading towns of the main land , we landed at Balsora , from whence I went to Bagdad.
There I immediately gave great alms to the poor , and lived honourably upon the vast riches I had gained with so much fatigue"
My father left me the best inheritance ; to wit -- good humor.
And who was my father ? Why , that has nothing to do with the humor.
He was lively and stout , round and fat ; and his outer and inner man were in direct contradiction to his calling.
And pray what was he by profession and calling in civil society ? Yes , if this were to be written down and printed in the very beginning of a book , it is probable that many when they read it would lay the book aside , and say , `` It looks so uncomfortable ; I do n't like anything of that sort"
And yet my father was neither a horse slaughterer nor an executioner ; on the contrary , his office placed him at the head of the most respectable gentry of the town ; and he held his place by right , for it was his right place.
He had to go first before the bishop even , and before the princes of the blood.
He always went first -- for he was the driver of the hearse ! There , now it 's out ! And I will confess that when people saw my father sitting perched up on the omnibus of death , dressed in his long , wide , black cloak , with his black-bordered three-cornered hat on his head -- and then his face , exactly as the sun is drawn , round and jocund -- it was difficult for them to think of the grave and of sorrow.
The face said , `` It does n't matter , it does n't matter ; it will be better than one thinks"
You see , I have inherited my good humor from him , and also the habit of going often to the churchyard , which is a good thing to do if it be done in the right spirit ; and then I take in the _ person_0 _ , just as he used to do.
I am not quite young.
I have neither wife , nor children , nor a library ; but , as aforesaid , I take in the _ person_0 _ , and that 's my favorite newspaper , as it was also my father 's.
It is very useful , and contains everything that a man needs to know -- such as who preaches in the church and in the new books.
And then what a lot of charity , and what a number of innocent , harmless verses are found in it ! Advertisements for husbands and wives , and requests for interviews -- all quite simple and natural.
Certainly , one may live merrily and be contentedly buried if one takes in the _ person_0 _.
And , as a concluding advantage , by the end of his life a man will have such a capital store of paper , that he may use it as a soft bed , unless he prefers to rest upon wood-shavings.
The newspaper and my walk to the churchyard were always my most exciting occupations -- they were like bathing-places for my good humor.
The newspaper every one can read for himself.
But please come with me to the churchyard ; let us wander there where the sun shines and the trees grow green.
Each of the narrow houses is like a closed book , with the back placed uppermost , so that one can only read the title and judge what the book contains , but can tell nothing about it ; but I know something of them.
I heard it from my father , or found it out myself.
I have it all down in my record that I wrote out for my own use and pleasure : all that lie here , and a few more too , are chronicled in it.
Now we are in the churchyard.
Here , behind this white railing , where once a rose tree grew -- it is gone now , but a little evergreen from the next grave stretches out its green fingers to make a show -- there rests a very unhappy man ; and yet , when he lived , he was in what they call a good position.
He had enough to live upon , and something over ; but worldly cares , or to speak more correctly , his artistic taste , weighed heavily upon him.
If in the evening he sat in the theater to enjoy himself thoroughly , he would be quite put out if the machinist had put too strong a light into one side of the moon , or if the sky-pieces hung down over the scenes when they ought to have hung behind them , or when a palm tree was introduced into a scene representing the Berlin Zoological Gardens , or a cactus in a view of the Tyrol , or a beech tree in the far north of Norway.
As if that was of any consequence.
Is it not quite immaterial ? Who would fidget about such a trifle ? It 's only make-believe , after all , and every one is expected to be amused.
Then sometimes the public applauded too much to suit his taste , and sometimes too little.
`` They 're like wet wood this evening ,"
he would say ; `` they wo n't kindle at all !"
And then he would look round to see what kind of people they were ; and sometimes he would find them laughing at the wrong time , when they ought not to have laughed , and that vexed him ; and he fretted , and was an unhappy man , and at last fretted himself into his grave.
Here rests a very happy man.
That is to say , a very grand man.
He was of high birth , and that was lucky for him , for otherwise he would never have been anything worth speaking of ; and nature orders all that very wisely , so that it 's quite charming when we think of it.
He used to go about in a coat embroidered back and front , and appeared in the saloons of society just like one of those costly , pearl-embroidered bell-pulls , which have always a good , thick , serviceable cord behind them to do the work.
He likewise had a good stout cord behind him , in the shape of a substitute , who did his duty , and who still continues to do it behind another embroidered bell-pull.
Everything is so nicely managed , it 's enough to put one into a good humor.
-LRB- Illustration : THE CHURCHYARD NARRATION.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Here rests -- well , it 's a very mournful reflection -- here rests a man who spent sixty-seven years considering how he should get a good idea.
The object of his life was to say a good thing , and at last he felt convinced in his own mind that he had got one , and was so glad of it that he died of pure joy at having caught an idea at last.
Nobody derived any benefit from it , and no one even heard what the good thing was.
Now , I can fancy that this same good thing wo n't let him live quiet in his grave ; for let us suppose that it is a good thing which can only be brought out at breakfast if it is to make an effect , and that he , according to the received opinion concerning ghosts , can only rise and walk at midnight.
Why , then the good thing would not suit the time , and the man must carry his good idea down with him again.
What an unhappy man he must be ! Here rests a remarkably stingy woman.
During her lifetime she used to get up at night and mew , so that the neighbors might think she kept a cat -- she was so remarkably stingy.
Here is a maiden of another kind.
When the canary bird of the heart begins to chirp , reason puts her fingers in her ears.
The maiden was going to be married , but -- well , it 's an every-day story , and we will let the dead rest.
Here sleeps a widow who carried melody in her mouth and gall in her heart.
She used to go out for prey in the families round about ; and the prey she hunted was her neighbors ' faults , and she was an indefatigable hunter.
Here 's a family sepulchre.
Every member of this family held so firmly to the opinions of the rest , that if all the world , and the newspapers into the bargain , said of a certain thing it is so and so , and the little boy came home from school and said , `` I 've learned it thus and thus ,"
they declared his opinion to be the only true one , because he belonged to the family.
And it is an acknowledged fact , that if the yard-cock of the family crowed at midnight , they would declare it was morning , though the watchmen and all the clocks in the city were crying out that it was twelve o'clock at night.
The great poet Goethe concludes his `` Faust"
with the words `` may be continued ;"
and our wanderings in the churchyard may be continued too.
If any of my friends , or my non-friends , go on too fast for me , I go out to my favorite spot and select a mound , and bury him or her there -- bury that person who is yet alive ; and there those I bury must stay till they come back as new and improved characters.
I inscribe their life and their deeds , looked at in my fashion , in my record ; and that 's what all people ought to do.
They ought not to be vexed when any one goes on ridiculously , but bury him directly , and maintain their good humor , and keep to the _ person_0 _ , which is often a book written by the people with its hand guided.
When the time comes for me to be bound with my history in the boards of the grave , I hope they will put up as my epitaph , `` A good-humoured one"
And that 's my story"
There was once on a time an old king who was ill , and thought to himself , `` I am lying on what must be my death-bed"
Then said he , `` Tell Faithful person_1 to come to me"
Faithful person_1 was his favorite servant , and was so called , because he had for his whole life long been so true to him.
When therefore he came beside the bed , the person_0 said to him , `` Most faithful person_1 , I feel my end approaching , and have no anxiety except about my son.
He is still of tender age , and can not always know how to guide himself.
If thou dost not promise me to teach him everything that he ought to know , and to be his foster-father , I can not close my eyes in peace"
Then answered Faithful person_1 , `` I will not forsake him , and will serve him with fidelity , even if it should cost me my life"
On this , the old person_0 said , `` Now I die in comfort and peace"
Then he added , `` After my death , thou shalt show him the whole castle : all the chambers , halls , and vaults , and all the treasures which lie therein , but the last chamber in the long gallery , in which is the picture of the princess of the Golden Dwelling , shalt thou not show.
If he sees that picture , he will fall violently in love with her , and will drop down in a swoon , and go through great danger for her sake , therefore thou must preserve him from that"
And when Faithful person_1 had once more given his promise to the old person_0 about this , the person_0 said no more , but laid his head on his pillow , and died.
When the old person_0 had been carried to his grave , Faithful person_1 told the young person_0 all that he had promised his father on his deathbed , and said , `` This will I assuredly perform , and will be faithful to thee as I have been faithful to him , even if it should cost me my life"
When the mourning was over , Faithful person_1 said to him , `` It is now time that thou shouldst see thine inheritance.
I will show thee thy father 's palace"
Then he took him about everywhere , up and down , and let him see all the riches , and the magnificent apartments , only there was one room which he did not open , that in which hung the dangerous picture.
The picture was , however , so placed that when the door was opened you looked straight on it , and it was so admirably painted that it seemed to breathe and live , and there was nothing more charming or more beautiful in the whole world.
The young person_0 , however , plainly remarked that Faithful person_1 always walked past this one door , and said , `` Why dost thou never open this one for me ?"
`` There is something within it ,"
he replied , `` which would terrify thee"
But the person_0 answered , `` I have seen all the palace , and I will know what is in this room also ,"
and he went and tried to break open the door by force.
Then Faithful person_1 held him back and said , `` I promised thy father before his death that thou shouldst not see that which is in this chamber , it might bring the greatest misfortune on thee and on me"
`` Ah , no ,"
replied the young person_0 , `` if I do not go in , it will be my certain destruction.
I should have no rest day or night until I had seen it with my own eyes.
I shall not leave the place now until thou hast unlocked the door"
Then Faithful person_1 saw that there was no help for it now , and with a heavy heart and many sighs , sought out the key from the great bunch.
When he had opened the door , he went in first , and thought by standing before him he could hide the portrait so that the person_0 should not see it in front of him , but what availed that ? The person_0 stood on tip-toe and saw it over his shoulder.
And when he saw the portrait of the maiden , which was so magnificent and shone with gold and precious stones , he fell fainting to the ground.
Faithful person_1 took him up , carried him to his bed , and sorrowfully thought , `` The misfortune has befallen us , Lord God , what will be the end of it ?"
Then he strengthened him with wine , until he came to himself again.
The first words the person_0 said were , `` Ah , the beautiful portrait ! whose it it ?"
`` That is the princess of the Golden Dwelling ,"
answered Faithful person_1.
Then the person_0 continued , `` My love for her is so great , that if all the leaves on all the trees were tongues , they could not declare it.
I will give my life to win her.
Thou art my most Faithful person_1 , thou must help me"
The faithful servant considered within himself for a long time how to set about the matter , for it was difficult even to obtain a sight of the person_0 's daughter.
At length he thought of a way , and said to the person_0 , `` Everything which she has about her is of gold -- tables , chairs , dishes , glasses , bowls , and household furniture.
Among thy treasures are five tons of gold ; let one of the goldsmiths of the person_0dom work these up into all manner of vessels and utensils , into all kinds of birds , wild beasts and strange animals , such as may please her , and we will go there with them and try our luck"
The person_0 ordered all the goldsmiths to be brought to him , and they had to work night and day until at last the most splendid things were prepared.
When everything was stowed on board a ship , Faithful person_1 put on the dress of a merchant , and the person_0 was forced to do the same in order to make himself quite unrecognizable.
Then they sailed across the sea , and sailed on until they came to the town wherein dwelt the princess of the Golden Dwelling.
Faithful person_1 bade the person_0 stay behind on the ship , and wait for him.
`` Perhaps I shall bring the princess with me ,"
said he , `` therefore see that everything is in order ; have the golden vessels set out and the whole ship decorated"
Then he gathered together in his apron all kinds of gold things , went on shore and walked straight to the royal palace.
When he entered the courtyard of the palace , a beautiful girl was standing there by the well with two golden buckets in her hand , drawing water with them.
And when she was just turning round to carry away the sparkling water she saw the stranger , and asked who he was.
So he answered , `` I am a merchant ,"
and opened his apron , and let her look in.
Then she cried , `` Oh , what beautiful gold things !"
and put her pails down and looked at the golden wares one after the other.
Then said the girl , `` The princess must see these , she has such great pleasure in golden things , that she will buy all you have"
She took him by the hand and led him upstairs , for she was the waiting-maid.
When the person_0 's daughter saw the wares , she was quite delighted and said , `` They are so beautifully worked , that I will buy them all of thee"
But Faithful person_1 said , `` I am only the servant of a rich merchant.
The things I have here are not to be compared with those my master has in his ship.
They are the most beautiful and valuable things that have ever been made in gold"
She wanted to have everything brought to her there , but he said , `` There are so many of them that it would take a great many days to do that , and so many rooms would be required to exhibit them , that your house is not big enough"
Then her curiosity and longing were still more excited , until at last she said , `` Conduct me to the ship , I will go there myself , and behold the treasures of thine master"
On this Faithful person_1 was quite delighted , and led her to the ship , and when the person_0 saw her , he perceived that her beauty was even greater than the picture had represented it to be , and thought no other than that his heart would burst in twain.
Then she got into the ship , and the person_0 led her within.
Faithful person_1 , however , remained behind with the pilot , and ordered the ship to be pushed off , saying , `` Set all sail , till it fly like a bird in air"
Within , however , the person_0 showed her the golden vessels , every one of them , also the wild beasts and strange animals.
Many hours went by whilst she was seeing everything , and in her delight she did not observe that the ship was sailing away.
After she had looked at the last , she thanked the merchant and wanted to go home , but when she came to the side of the ship , she saw that it was on the deep sea far from land , and hurrying onwards with all sail set.
`` Ah ,"
cried she in her alarm , `` I am betrayed ! I am carried away and have fallen into the power of a merchant -- I would die rather !"
The person_0 , however , seized her hand , and said , `` I am not a merchant.
I am a king , and of no meaner origin than thou art , and if I have carried thee away with subtlety , that has come to pass because of my exceeding great love for thee.
The first time that I looked on thy portrait , I fell fainting to the ground"
When the princess of the Golden Dwelling heard that , she was comforted , and her heart was inclined unto him , so that she willingly consented to be his wife.
It so happened , however , while they were sailing onwards over the deep sea , that Faithful person_1 , who was sitting on the fore part of the vessel , making music , saw three ravens in the air , which came flying towards them.
On this he stopped playing and listened to what they were saying to each other , for that he well understood.
One cried , `` Oh , there he is carrying home the princess of the Golden Dwelling"
`` Yes ,"
replied the second , `` but he has not got her yet"
Said the third , `` But he has got her , she is sitting beside him in the ship"
Then the first began again , and cried , `` What good will that do him ? When they reach land a chestnut horse will leap forward to meet him , and the prince will want to mount it , but if he does that , it will run away with him , and rise up into the air with him , and he will never see his maiden more"
Spake the second , `` But is there no escape ?"
`` Oh , yes , if any one else gets on it swiftly , and takes out the pistol which must be in its holster , and shoots the horse dead with it , the young person_0 is saved.
But who knows that ? And whosoever does know it , and tells it to him , will be turned to stone from the toe to the knee"
Then said the second , `` I know more than that ; even if the horse be killed , the young person_0 will still not keep his bride.
When they go into the castle together , a wrought bridal garment will be lying there in a dish , and looking as if it were woven of gold and silver ; it is , however , nothing but sulphur and pitch , and if he put it on , it will burn him to the very bone and marrow"
Said the third , `` Is there no escape at all ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
replied the second , `` if any one with gloves on seizes the garment and throws it into the fire and burns it , the young person_0 will be saved.
`` But what avails that ?"
`` Whosoever knows it and tells it to him , half his body will become stone from the knee to the heart"
Then said the third , `` I know still more ; even if the bridal garment be burnt , the young person_0 will still not have his bride.
After the wedding , when the dancing begins and the young queen is dancing , she will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead , and if some one does not lift her up and draw three drops of blood from her right breast and spit them out again , she will die.
But if any one who knows that were to declare it , he would become stone from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot"
When the ravens had spoken of this together , they flew onwards , and Faithful person_1 had well understood everything , but from that time forth he became quiet and sad , for if he concealed what he had heard from his master , the latter would be unfortunate , and if he discovered it to him , he himself must sacrifice his life.
At length , however , he said to himself , `` I will save my master , even if it bring destruction on myself"
When therefore they came to shore , all happened as had been foretold by the ravens , and a magnificent chestnut horse sprang forward.
`` Good ,"
said the person_0 , `` he shall carry me to my palace ,"
and was about to mount it when Faithful person_1 got before him , jumped quickly on it , drew the pistol out of the holster , and shot the horse.
Then the other attendants of the person_0 , who after all were not very fond of Faithful person_1 , cried , `` How shameful to kill the beautiful animal , that was to have carried the person_0 to his palace"
But the person_0 said , `` Hold your peace and leave him alone , he is my most faithful person_1 , who knows what may be the good of that !"
They went into the palace , and in the hall there stood a dish , and therein lay the bridal garment looking no otherwise than as if it were made of gold and silver.
The young person_0 went towards it and was about to take hold of it , but Faithful person_1 pushed him away , seized it with gloves on , carried it quickly to the fire and burnt it.
The other attendants again began to murmur , and said , `` Behold , now he is even burning the person_0 's bridal garment !"
But the young person_0 said , `` Who knows what good he may have done , leave him alone , he is my most faithful person_1"
And now the wedding was solemnized : the dance began , and the bride also took part in it ; then Faithful person_1 was watchful and looked into her face , and suddenly she turned pale and fell to the ground , as if she were dead.
On this he ran hastily to her , lifted her up and bore her into a chamber -- then he laid her down , and knelt and sucked the three drops of blood from her right breast , and spat them out.
Immediately she breathed again and recovered herself , but the young person_0 had seen this , and being ignorant why Faithful person_1 had done it , was angry and cried , `` Throw him into a dungeon"
Next morning Faithful person_1 was condemned , and led to the gallows , and when he stood on high , and was about to be executed , he said , `` Every one who has to die is permitted before his end to make one last speech ; may I too claim the right ?"
`` Yes ,"
answered the person_0 , `` it shall be granted unto thee"
Then said Faithful person_1 , `` I am unjustly condemned , and have always been true to thee ,"
and he related how he had hearkened to the conversation of the ravens when on the sea , and how he had been obliged to do all these things in order to save his master.
Then cried the person_0 , `` Oh , my most Faithful person_1.
Pardon , pardon -- bring him down"
But as Faithful person_1 spoke the last word he had fallen down lifeless and become a stone.
Thereupon the person_0 and the Queen suffered great anguish , and the person_0 said , `` Ah , how ill I have requited great fidelity !"
and ordered the stone figure to be taken up and placed in his bedroom beside his bed.
And as often as he looked on it he wept and said , `` Ah , if I could bring thee to life again , my most faithful person_1"
Some time passed and the Queen bore twins , two sons who grew fast and were her delight.
Once when the Queen was at church and the two children were sitting playing beside their father , the latter full of grief again looked at the stone figure , sighed and said , `` Ah , if I could but bring thee to life again , my most faithful person_1"
Then the stone began to speak and said , `` Thou canst bring me to life again if thou wilt use for that purpose what is dearest to thee"
Then cried the person_0 , `` I will give everything I have in the world for thee"
The stone continued , `` If thou wilt will cut off the heads of thy two children with thine own hand , and sprinkle me with their blood , I shall be restored to life"
The person_0 was terrified when he heard that he himself must kill his dearest children , but he thought of faithful person_1 's great fidelity , and how he had died for him , drew his sword , and with his own hand cut off the children 's heads.
And when he had smeared the stone with their blood , life returned to it , and Faithful person_1 stood once more safe and healthy before him.
He said to the person_0 , `` Thy truth shall not go unrewarded ,"
and took the heads of the children , put them on again , and rubbed the wounds with their blood , on which they became whole again immediately , and jumped about , and went on playing as if nothing had happened.
Then the person_0 was full of joy , and when he saw the Queen coming he hid Faithful person_1 and the two children in a great cupboard.
When she entered , he said to her , `` Hast thou been praying in the church ?"
`` Yes ,"
answered she , `` but I have constantly been thinking of Faithful person_1 and what misfortune has befallen him through us"
Then said he , `` Dear wife , we can give him his life again , but it will cost us our two little sons , whom we must sacrifice"
The Queen turned pale , and her heart was full of terror , but she said , `` We owe it to him , for his great fidelity"
Then the person_0 was rejoiced that she thought as he had thought , and went and opened the cupboard , and brought forth Faithful person_1 and the children , and said , `` God be praised , he is delivered , and we have our little sons again also ,"
and told her how everything had occurred.
Then they dwelt together in much happiness until their death"
Once on a time a countryman had a son who was as big as a thumb , and did not become any bigger , and during several years did not grow one hair 's breadth.
Once when the father was going out to plough , the little one said , `` Father , I will go out with you"
`` Thou wouldst go out with me ?"
said the father.
`` Stay here , thou wilt be of no use out there , besides thou mightest get lost !"
Then Thumbling began to cry , and for the sake of peace his father put him in his pocket , and took him with him.
When he was outside in the field , he took him out again , and set him in a freshly-cut furrow.
Whilst he was there , a great giant came over the hill.
`` Do thou see that great bogie ?"
said the father , for he wanted to frighten the little fellow to make him good ; `` he is coming to fetch thee"
The giant , however , had scarcely taken two steps with his long legs before he was in the furrow.
He took up little Thumbling carefully with two fingers , examined him , and without saying one word went away with him.
His father stood by , but could not utter a sound for terror , and he thought nothing else but that his child was lost , and that as long as he lived he should never set eyes on him again.
The giant , however , carried him home , suckled him , and Thumbling grew and became tall and strong after the manner of giants.
When two years had passed , the old giant took him into the forest , wanted to try him , and said , `` Pull up a stick for thyself"
Then the boy was already so strong that he tore up a young tree out of the earth by the roots.
But the giant thought , `` We must do better than that ,"
took him back again , and suckled him two years longer.
When he tried him , his strength had increased so much that he could tear an old tree out of the ground.
That was still not enough for the giant ; he again suckled him for two years , and when he then went with him into the forest and said , `` Now just tear up a proper stick for me ,"
the boy tore up the strongest oak-tree from the earth , so that it split , and that was a mere trifle to him.
`` Now that will do ,"
said the giant , `` thou art perfect ,"
and took him back to the field from whence he had brought him.
His father was there following the plough.
The young giant went up to him , and said , `` Does my father see what a fine man his son has grown into ?"
The farmer was alarmed , and said , `` No , thou art not my son ; I do n't want thee leave me !"
`` Truly I am your son ; allow me to do your work , I can plough as well as you , nay better"
`` No , no , thou art not my son ; and thou canst not plough go away !"
However , as he was afraid of this great man , he left go of the plough , stepped back and stood at one side of the piece of land.
Then the youth took the plough , and just pressed it with one hand , but his grasp was so strong that the plough went deep into the earth.
The farmer could not bear to see that , and called to him , `` If thou art determined to plough , thou must not press so hard on it , that makes bad work"
The youth , however , unharnessed the horses , and drew the plough himself , saying , `` Just go home , father , and bid my mother make ready a large dish of food , and in the meantime I will go over the field"
Then the farmer went home , and ordered his wife to prepare the food ; but the youth ploughed the field which was two acres large , quite alone , and then he harnessed himself to the harrow , and harrowed the whole of the land , using two harrows at once.
When he had done it , he went into the forest , and pulled up two oak-trees , laid them across his shoulders , and hung on them one harrow behind and one before , and also one horse behind and one before , and carried all as if it had been a bundle of straw , to his parents ' house.
When he entered the yard , his mother did not recognize him , and asked , `` Who is that horrible tall man ?"
The farmer said , `` That is our son"
She said , `` No that can not be our son , we never had such a tall one , ours was a little thing"
She called to him , `` Go away , we do not want thee !"
The youth was silent , but led his horses to the stable , gave them some oats and hay , and all that they wanted.
When he had done this , he went into the parlor , sat down on the bench and said , `` Mother , now I should like something to eat , will it soon be ready ?"
Then she said , `` Yes ,"
and brought in two immense dishes full of food , which would have been enough to satisfy herself and her husband for a week.
The youth , however , ate the whole of it himself , and asked if she had nothing more to set before him.
`` No ,"
she replied , `` that is all we have"
`` But that was only a taste , I must have more"
She did not dare to oppose him , and went and put a huge caldron full of food on the fire , and when it was ready , carried it in.
`` At length come a few crumbs ,"
said he , and ate all there was , but it was still not sufficient to appease his hunger.
Then said he , `` Father , I see well that with you I shall never have food enough ; if you will get me an iron staff which is strong , and which I can not break against my knees , I will go out into the world"
The farmer was glad , put his two horses in his cart , and fetched from the smith a staff so large and thick , that the two horses could only just bring it away.
The youth laid it across his knees , and snap ! he broke it in two in the middle like a bean-stalk , and threw it away.
The father then harnessed four horses , and brought a bar which was so long and thick , that the four horses could only just drag it.
The son snapped this also in twain against his knees , threw it away , and said , `` Father , this can be of no use to me , you must harness more horses , and bring a stronger staff"
So the father harnessed eight horses , and brought one which was so long and thick , that the eight horses could only just carry it.
When the son took it in his hand , he broke off a bit from the top of it also , and said , `` Father , I see that you will not be able to procure me any such staff as I want , I will remain no longer with you"
So he went away , and gave out that he was a smith 's apprentice.
He arrived at a village , wherein lived a smith who was a greedy fellow , who never did a kindness to any one , but wanted everything for himself.
The youth went into the smithy and asked if he needed a journeyman.
`` Yes ,"
said the smith , and looked at him , and thought , `` That is a strong fellow who will strike out well , and earn his bread"
So he asked , `` How much wages dost thou want ?"
`` I do n't want any at all ,"
he replied , `` only every fortnight , when the other journeymen are paid , I will give thee two blows , and thou must bear them"
The miser was heartily satisfied , and thought he would thus save much money.
Next morning , the strange journeyman was to begin to work , but when the master brought the glowing bar , and the youth struck his first blow , the iron flew asunder , and the anvil sank so deep into the earth , that there was no bringing it out again.
Then the miser grew angry , and said , `` Oh , but I ca n't make any use of you , you strike far too powerfully ; what will you have for the one blow ?"
Then said he , `` I will only give you quite a small blow , that 's all"
And he raised his foot , and gave him such a kick that he flew away over four loads of hay.
Then he sought out the thickest iron bar in the smithy for himself , took it as a stick in his hand and went onwards.
When he had walked for some time , he came to a small farm , and asked the bailiff if he did not require a head-servant.
`` Yes ,"
said the bailiff , `` I can make use of one ; you look a strong fellow who can do something , how much a year do you want as wages ?"
He again replied that he wanted no wages at all , but that every year he would give him three blows , which he must bear.
Then the bailiff was satisfied , for he , too , was a covetous fellow.
Next morning all the servants were to go into the wood , and the others were already up , but the head-servant was still in bed.
Then one of them called to him , `` Get up , it is time ; we are going into the wood , and thou must go with us"
`` Ah ,"
said he quite roughly and surlily , `` you may just go , then ; I shall be back again before any of you"
Then the others went to the bailiff , and told him that the head-man was still lying in bed , and would not go into the wood with them.
The bailiff said they were to awaken him again , and tell him to harness the horses.
The head-man , however , said as before , `` Just go there , I shall be back again before any of you"
And then he stayed in bed two hours longer.
At length he arose from the feathers , but first he got himself two bushels of peas from the loft , made himself some broth with them , ate it at his leisure , and when that was done , went and harnessed the horses , and drove into the wood.
Not far from the wood was a ravine through which he had to pass , so he first drove the horses on , and then stopped them , and went behind the cart , took trees and brushwood , and made a great barricade , so that no horse could get through.
When he was entering the wood , the others were just driving out of it with their loaded carts to go home ; then said he to them , `` Drive on , I will still get home before you do"
He did not drive far into the wood , but at once tore two of the very largest trees of all out of the earth , threw them on his cart , and turned round.
When he came to the barricade , the others were still standing there , not able to get through.
`` Do n't you see ,"
said he , `` that if you had stayed with me , you would have got home just as quickly , and would have had another hour 's sleep ?"
He now wanted to drive on , but his horses could not work their way through , so he unharnessed them , laid them on the top of the cart , took the shafts in his own hands , and pulled it all through , and he did this just as easily as if it had been laden with feathers.
When he was over , he said to the others , `` There , you see , I have got over quicker than you ,"
and drove on , and the others had to stay where they were.
In the yard , however , he took a tree in his hand , showed it to the bailiff , and said , `` Is n't that a fine bundle of wood ?"
Then said the bailiff to his wife , `` The servant is a good one , if he does sleep long , he is still home before the others"
So he served the bailiff for a year , and when that was over , and the other servants were getting their wages , he said it was time for him to take his too.
The bailiff , however , was afraid of the blows which he was to receive , and earnestly entreated him to excuse him from having them ; for rather than that , he himself would be head-servant , and the youth should be bailiff.
`` No ,"
said he , `` I will not be a bailiff , I am head-servant , and will remain so , but I will administer that which we agreed on"
The bailiff was willing to give him whatsoever he demanded , but it was of no use , the head-servant said no to everything.
Then the bailiff did not know what to do , and begged for a fortnight 's delay , for he wanted to find some way of escape.
The head-servant consented to this delay.
The bailiff summoned all his clerks together , and they were to think the matter over , and give him advice.
The clerks pondered for a long time , but at last they said that no one was sure of his life with the head-servant , for he could kill a man as easily as a midge , and that the bailiff ought to make him get into the well and clean it , and when he was down below , they would roll up one of the mill-stones which was lying there , and throw it on his head ; and then he would never return to daylight.
The advice pleased the bailiff , and the head-servant was quite willing to go down the well.
When he was standing down below at the bottom , they rolled down the largest mill-stone and thought they had broken his skull , but he cried , `` Chase away those hens from the well , they are scratching in the sand up there , and throwing the grains into my eyes , so that I ca n't see"
So the bailiff cried , `` Sh-sh ,"
and pretended to frighten the hens away.
When the head-servant had finished his work , he climbed up and said , `` Just look what a beautiful neck-tie I have on ,"
and behold it was the mill-stone which he was wearing round his neck.
The head-servant now wanted to take his reward , but the bailiff again begged for a fortnight 's delay.
The clerks met together and advised him to send the head-servant to the haunted mill to grind corn by night , for from thence as yet no man had ever returned in the morning alive.
The proposal pleased the bailiff , he called the head-servant that very evening , and ordered him to take eight bushels of corn to the mill , and grind it that night , for it was wanted.
So the head-servant went to the loft , and put two bushels in his right pocket , and two in his left , and took four in a wallet , half on his back , and half on his breast , and thus laden went to the haunted mill.
The miller told him that he could grind there very well by day , but not by night , for the mill was haunted , and that up to the present time whosoever had gone into it at night had been found in the morning lying dead inside.
He said , `` I will manage it , just you go away to bed"
Then he went into the mill , and poured out the corn.
About eleven o'clock he went into the miller 's room , and sat down on the bench.
When he had sat there a while , a door suddenly opened , and a large table came in , and on the table , wine and roasted meats placed themselves , and much good food besides , but everything came of itself , for no one was there to carry it.
After this the chairs pushed themselves up , but no people came , until all at once he beheld fingers , which handled knives and forks , and laid food on the plates , but with this exception he saw nothing.
As he was hungry , and saw the food , he , too , place himself at the table , ate with those who were eating and enjoyed it.
When he had had enough , and the others also had quite emptied their dishes , he distinctly heard all the candles being suddenly snuffed out , and as it was now pitch dark , he felt something like a box on the ear.
Then he said , `` If anything of that kind comes again , I shall strike out in return"
And when he had received a second box on the ear , he , too struck out.
And so it continued the whole night.
He took nothing without returning it , but repaid everything with interest , and did not lay about him in vain.
At daybreak , however , everything ceased.
When the miller had got up , he wanted to look after him , and wondered if he were still alive.
Then the youth said , `` I have eaten my fill , have received some boxes on the ears , but I have given some in return"
The miller rejoiced , and said that the mill was now released from the spell , and wanted to give him much money as a reward.
But he said , `` Money , I will not have , I have enough of it"
So he took his meal on his back , went home , and told the bailiff that he had done what he had been told to do , and would now have the reward agreed on.
When the bailiff heard that , he was seriously alarmed and quite beside himself ; he walked backwards and forwards in the room , and drops of perspiration ran down from his forehead.
Then he opened the window to get some fresh air , but before he was aware , the head-servant had given him such a kick that he flew through the window out into the air , and so far away that no one ever saw him again.
Then said the head-servant to the bailiff 's wife , `` If he does not come back , you must take the other blow"
She cried , `` No , no I can not bear it ,"
and opened the other window , because drops of perspiration were running down her forehead.
Then he gave her such a kick that she , too , flew out , and as she was lighter she went much higher than her husband.
Her husband cried , `` Do come to me ,"
but she replied , `` Come thou to me , I can not come to thee"
And they hovered about there in the air , and could not get to each other , and whether they are still hovering about , or not , I do not know , but the young giant took up his iron bar , and went on his way"
person_0 had served his master for seven years , so he said to him , `` Master , my time is up ; now I should be glad to go back home to my mother ; give me my wages"
The master answered , `` You have served me faithfully and honestly ; as the service was so shall the reward be ;"
and he gave person_0 a piece of gold as big as his head.
person_0 pulled his handkerchief out of his pocket , wrapped up the lump in it , put it on his shoulder , and set out on the way home.
As he went on , always putting one foot before the other , he saw a horseman trotting quickly and merrily by on a lively horse.
`` Ah !"
said person_0 quite loud , `` what a fine thing it is to ride ! There you sit as on a chair ; you stumble over no stones , you save your shoes , and get on , you do n't know how"
The rider , who had heard him , stopped and called out , `` Hollo ! person_0 , why do you go on foot , then ?"
`` I must ,"
answered he , `` for I have this lump to carry home ; it is true that it is gold , but I can not hold my head straight for it , and it hurts my shoulder"
`` I will tell you what ,"
said the rider , `` we will exchange : I will give you my horse , and you can give me your lump"
`` With all my heart ,"
said person_0 , `` but I can tell you , you will have to crawl along with it"
The rider got down , took the gold , and helped person_0 up ; then gave him the bridle tight in his hands and said , `` If you want to go at a really good pace , you must click your tongue and call out , `` Jup ! Jup !"
person_0 was heartily delighted as he sat upon the horse and rode away so bold and free.
After a little while he thought that it ought to go faster , and he began to click with his tongue and call out , `` Jup ! Jup !"
The horse put himself into a sharp trot , and before person_0 knew where he was , he was thrown off and lying in a ditch which separated the field from the highway.
The horse would have gone off too if it had not been stopped by a countryman , who was coming along the road and driving a cow before him.
person_0 got his limbs together and stood up on his legs again , but he was vexed , and said to the countryman , `` It is a poor joke , this riding , especially when one gets hold of a mare like this , that kicks and throws one off , so that one has a chance of breaking one 's neck.
Never again will I mount it.
Now I like your cow , for one can walk quietly behind her , and have , over and above , one 's milk , butter and cheese every day without fail.
What would I not give to have such a cow"
`` Well ,"
said the countryman , `` if it would give you so much pleasure , I do not mind giving the cow for the horse"
person_0 agreed with the greatest delight ; the countryman jumped upon the horse , and rode quickly away.
person_0 drove his cow quietly before him , and thought over his lucky bargain.
`` If only I have a morsel of bread -- and that can hardly fail me -- I can eat butter and cheese with it as often as I like ; if I am thirsty , I can milk my cow and drink the milk.
Good heart , what more can I want ?"
When he came to an inn he made a halt , and in his great content ate up what he had with him -- his dinner and supper -- and all he had , and with his last few farthings had half a glass of beer.
Then he drove his cow onwards along the road to his mother 's village.
As it drew nearer mid-day , the heat was more oppressive , and person_0 found himself upon a moor which it took about an hour to cross.
He felt it very hot and his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth with thirst.
`` I can find a cure for this ,"
thought person_0 ; `` I will milk the cow now and refresh myself with the milk"
He tied her to a withered tree , and as he had no pail he put his leather cap underneath ; but try as he would , not a drop of milk came.
And as he set himself to work in a clumsy way , the impatient beast at last gave him such a blow on his head with its hind foot , that he fell on the ground , and for a long time could not think where he was.
By good fortune a butcher just then came along the road with a wheel-barrow , in which lay a young pig.
`` What sort of a trick is this ?"
cried he , and helped the good person_0 up.
person_0 told him what had happened.
The butcher gave him his flask and said , `` Take a drink and refresh yourself.
The cow will certainly give no milk , it is an old beast ; at the best it is only fit for the plough , or for the butcher"
`` Well , well ,"
said person_0 , as he stroked his hair down on his head , `` who would have thought it ? Certainly it is a fine thing when one can kill a beast like that at home ; what meat one has ! But I do not care much for beef , it is not juicy enough for me.
A young pig like that now is the thing to have , it tastes quite different ; and then there are the sausages !"
`` Hark ye , person_0 ,"
said the butcher , `` out of love for you I will exchange , and will let you have the pig for the cow"
`` Heaven repay you for your kindness !"
said person_0 as he gave up the cow , whilst the pig was unbound from the barrow , and the cord by which it was tied was put in his hand.
person_0 went on , and thought to himself how everything was going just as he wished ; if he did meet with any vexation it was immediately set right.
Presently there joined him a lad who was carrying a fine white goose under his arm.
They said good morning to each other , and person_0 began to tell of his good luck , and how he had always made such good bargains.
The boy told him that he was taking the goose to a christening-feast.
`` Just lift her ,"
added he , and laid hold of her by the wings ; `` how heavy she is -- she has been fattened up for the last eight weeks.
Whoever has a bit of her when she is roasted will have to wipe the fat from both sides of his mouth"
`` Yes ,"
said person_0 , as he weighed her in one hand , `` she is a good weight , but my pig is no bad one"
Meanwhile the lad looked suspiciously from one side to the other , and shook his head.
`` Look here ,"
he said at length , `` it may not be all right with your pig.
In the village through which I passed , the Mayor himself had just had one stolen out of its sty.
I fear -- I fear that you have got hold of it there.
They have sent out some people and it would be a bad business if they caught you with the pig ; at the very least , you would be shut up in the dark hole"
The good person_0 was terrified.
`` Goodness !"
he said , `` help me out of this fix ; you know more about this place than I do , take my pig and leave me your goose"
`` I shall risk something at that game ,"
answered the lad , `` but I will not be the cause of your getting into trouble"
So he took the cord in his hand , and drove away the pig quickly along a by-path.
The good person_0 , free from care , went homewards with the goose under his arm.
`` When I think over it properly ,"
said he to himself , `` I have even gained by the exchange ; first there is the good roast-meat , then the quantity of fat which will drip from it , and which will give me dripping for my bread for a quarter of a year , and lastly the beautiful white feathers ; I will have my pillow stuffed with them , and then indeed I shall go to sleep without rocking.
How glad my mother will be !"
As he was going through the last village , there stood a scissors-grinder with his barrow ; as his wheel whirred he sang -- `` I sharpen scissors and quickly grind , My coat blows out in the wind behind"
person_0 stood still and looked at him ; at last he spoke to him and said , `` All 's well with you , as you are so merry with your grinding"
`` Yes ,"
answered the scissors-grinder , `` the trade has a golden foundation.
A real grinder is a man who as often as he puts his hand into his pocket finds gold in it.
But where did you buy that fine goose ?"
`` I did not buy it , but exchanged my pig for it"
`` And the pig ?"
`` That I got for a cow"
`` And the cow ?"
`` I took that instead of a horse"
`` And the horse ?"
`` For that I gave a lump of gold as big as my head"
`` And the gold ?"
`` Well , that was my wages for seven years ' service"
`` You have known how to look after yourself each time ,"
said the grinder.
`` If you can only get on so far as to hear the money jingle in your pocket whenever you stand up , you will have made your fortune"
`` How shall I manage that ?"
said person_0.
`` You must be a grinder , as I am ; nothing particular is wanted for it but a grindstone , the rest finds itself.
I have one here ; it is certainly a little worn , but you need not give me anything for it but your goose ; will you do it ?"
`` How can you ask ?"
answered person_0.
`` I shall be the luckiest fellow on earth ; if I have money whenever I put my hand in my pocket , what need I trouble about any longer ?"
and he handed him the goose and received the grindstone in exchange.
`` Now ,"
said the grinder , as he took up an ordinary heavy stone that lay by him , `` here is a strong stone for you into the bargain ; you can hammer well upon it , and straighten your old nails.
Take it with you and keep it carefully"
person_0 loaded himself with the stones , and went on with a contented heart ; his eyes shone with joy.
`` I must have been born with a caul ,"
he cried ; `` everything I want happens to me just as if I were a Sunday-child"
Meanwhile , as he had been on his legs since daybreak , he began to feel tired.
Hunger also tormented him , for in his joy at the bargain by which he got the cow he had eaten up all his store of food at once.
At last he could only go on with great trouble , and was forced to stop every minute ; the stones , too , weighed him down dreadfully.
Then he could not help thinking how nice it would be if he had not to carry them just then.
He crept like a snail to a well in a field , and there he thought that he would rest and refresh himself with a cool draught of water , but in order that he might not injure the stones in sitting down , he laid them carefully by his side on the edge of the well.
Then he sat down on it , and was to stoop and drink , when he made a slip , pushed against the stones , and both of them fell into the water.
When person_0 saw them with his own eyes sinking to the bottom , he jumped for joy , and then knelt down , and with tears in his eyes thanked God for having shown him this favor also , and delivered him in so good a way , and without his having any need to reproach himself , from those heavy stones which had been the only things that troubled him.
`` There is no man under the sun so fortunate as I ,"
he cried out.
With a light heart and free from every burden he now ran on until he was with his mother at home"
On board the steamer was an elderly man with such a merry face that , if it did not belie him , he must have been the happiest fellow in creation.
And , indeed , he declared he was the happiest man ; I heard it out of his own mouth.
He was a Dane , a traveling theater director.
He had all his company with him in a large box , for he was proprietor of a puppet-show.
His inborn cheerfulness , he said , had been _ purified _ by a person_0 candidate , and the experiment had made him completely happy.
I did not at first understand all this , but afterwards he explained the whole story to me , and here it is.
He told me : -LRB- Illustration : THE ANIMATED PUPPETS.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` It was in the little town of Slagelse I gave a representation in the hall of the posting-house , and had a brilliant audience , entirely a juvenile one , with the exception of two respectable matrons.
All at once a person in black , of student-like appearance , came into the room and sat down ; he laughed aloud at the telling parts , and applauded quite appropriately.
That was quite an unusual spectator for me ! I felt anxious to know who he was , and I heard he was a candidate from the person_0 Institution in Copenhagen , who had been sent out to instruct the folks in the provinces.
Punctually at eight o'clock my performance closed ; for children must go early to bed , and a manager must consult the convenience of his public.
At nine o'clock the candidate commenced his lecture , with experiments , and now I formed part of _ his _ audience.
It was wonderful to hear and to see.
The greater part of it was beyond my scope ; but still it made me think that if we men can find out so much , we must be surely intended to last longer than the little span until we are hidden away in the earth.
They were quite miracles in a small way that he showed , and yet everything flowed as naturally as water ! At the time of Moses and the prophets such a man would have been received among the sages of the land ; in the middle ages they would have burned him at a stake.
All night long I could not go to sleep.
And the next evening , when I gave another performance , and the candidate was again present , I felt fairly overflowing with humor.
I once heard from a player that when he acted a lover he always thought of one particular lady among the audience ; he only played for her , and forgot all the rest of the house ; and now the person_0 candidate was my ` she , ' my only auditor , for whom alone I played.
And when the performance was over , all the puppets were called before the curtain , and the person_0 candidate invited me into his room to take a glass of wine ; and he spoke of my comedies , and I of his science ; and I believe we were both equally pleased.
But I had the best of it , for there was much in what he did of which he could not always give me an explanation.
For instance , that a piece of iron that falls through a spiral should become magnetic.
Now , how does that happen ? The spirit comes upon it ; but whence does it come ? It is as with people in this world ; they are made to tumble through the spiral of this world , and the spirit comes upon them , and there stands a Napoleon , or a Luther , or a person of that kind.
` The whole world is a series of miracles , ' said the candidate ; ` but we are so accustomed to them that we call them every-day matters.
' And he went on explaining things to me until my skull seemed lifted up over my brain , and I declared that if I were not an old fellow I would at once visit the person_0 Institution , that I might learn to look at the sunny side of the world , though I am one of the happiest of men.
` One of the happiest ! ' said the candidate , and he seemed to take real pleasure in it.
` Are you happy ? ' ` Yes , ' I replied , ` and they welcome me in all the towns where I come with my company ; but I certainly have _ one _ wish , which sometimes lies like lead , like an Alp , upon my good humor : I should like to become a real theatrical manager , the director of a real troupe of men and women ! ' ` I see , ' he said , ` you would like to have life breathed into your puppets , so that they might be real actors , and you their director ; and would you then be quite happy ? ' He did not believe it ; but I believed it , and we talked it over all manner of ways without coming any nearer to an agreement ; but we clanked our glasses together , and the wine was excellent.
There was some magic in it , or I should certainly have become tipsy.
But that did not happen ; I retained my clear view of things , and somehow there was sunshine in the room , and sunshine beamed out of the eyes of the person_0 candidate.
It made me think of the old stories of the gods , in their eternal youth , when they still wandered upon earth and paid visits to the mortals ; and I said so to him , and he smiled , and I could have sworn he was one of the ancient gods in disguise , or that , at any rate , he belonged to the family ! and certainly he must have been something of the kind , for my highest wish was to have been fulfilled , the puppets were to be gifted with life , and I was to be director of a real company.
We drank to my success and clinked our glasses.
He packed all my dolls into a box , bound the box on my back , and then let me fall through a spiral.
I heard myself tumbling , and then I was lying on the floor -- I know that quite well -- and the whole company sprang out of the box.
The spirit had come upon all of us : all the puppets had become distinguished artists , so they said themselves , and I was the director.
All was ready for the first representation ; the whole company wanted to speak to me , and the public also.
The dancing lady said the house would fall down if she did not keep it up by standing on one leg ; for she was the great genius , and begged to be treated as such.
The lady who acted the queen wished to be treated off the stage as a queen , or else she should get out of practice.
The man who was only employed to deliver a letter gave himself just as many airs as the first lover , for he declared the little ones were just as important as the great ones , and that all were of equal consequence , considered as an artistic whole.
The hero would only play parts composed of nothing but points ; for those brought him down the applause.
The prima donna would only play in a red light ; for she declared that a blue one did not suit her complexion.
It was like a company of flies in a bottle ; and I was in the bottle with them , for I was the director.
My breath stopped and my head whirled round ; I was as miserable as a man can be.
It was quite a novel kind of men among whom I now found myself.
I only wished I had them all in the box again , and that I had never been a director at all ; so I told them roundly that after all they were nothing but puppets ; and then they killed me.
I found myself lying on my bed in my room ; and how I got there , and how I got away at all from the person_0 candidate , he may perhaps know , for I do n't.
The moon shone upon the floor where the box lay open , and the dolls all in a confusion together -- great and small all scattered about ; but I was not idle.
Out of bed I jumped , and into the box they had all to go , some on their heads , some on their feet , and I shut down the lid and seated myself upon the box.
` Now you 'll just have to stay there , ' said I , ` and I shall beware how I wish you flesh and blood again.
' I felt quite light , my good humor had come back , and I was the happiest of mortals.
The person_0 student had fully purified me.
I sat as happy as a king , and went to sleep on the box.
The next morning -- strictly speaking it was noon , for I slept wonderfully late that day -- I was still sitting there , happy and conscious that my former wish had been a foolish one.
I inquired for the person_0 candidate , but he was gone , like the Greek and Roman gods ; and from that time I 've been the happiest of men.
I am a happy director : none of my company ever grumble , nor my public either , for they are always merry.
I can put my pieces together just as I please.
I take out of every comedy what pleases me best , and no one is angry at it.
Pieces that are neglected now-a-days by the great public , but which it used to run after thirty years ago , and at which it used to cry till the tears ran down its cheeks , these pieces I now take up ; I put them before the little ones , and the little ones cry just as papa and mamma used to cry thirty years ago ; but I shorten them , for the youngsters do n't like a long palaver ; what they want is something mournful , but quick"
On this occasion I chose the general `` moving-day"
for my visit to Ole , for on that day it is anything but agreeable down in the streets in the town ; for they are full of sweepings , shreds , and remnants of all sorts , to say nothing of the cast-off bed straw in which one has to wade about.
But this time I happened to see two children playing in this wilderness of sweepings.
They were playing at `` going to bed ,"
for the occasion seemed especially favourable for this sport : they crept under the straw , and drew an old bit of ragged curtain over themselves by way of coverlet.
`` It was splendid !"
they said ; but it was a little too strong for me , and besides , I was obliged to mount up on my visit.
`` It 's moving-day to-day ,"
he said ; `` streets and houses are like a dust-bin , a large dust-bin ; but I 'm content with a cartload.
I may get something good out of that , and I really did get something good out of it , once.
Shortly after Christmas I was going up the street ; it was rough weather , wet and dirty ; the right kind of weather to catch cold in.
The dustman was there with his cart , which was full , and looked like a sample of streets on moving-day.
At the back of the cart stood a fir tree , quite green still , and with tinsel on its twigs : it had been used on Christmas-eve , and now it was thrown out into the street , and the dustman had stood it up at the back of his cart.
It was droll to look at , or you may say it was mournful -- all depends on what you think of when you see it ; and I thought about it , and thought this and that of many things that were in the cart : or I might have done so , and that comes to the same thing.
There was an old lady 's glove too : I wonder what that was thinking of ? Shall I tell you ? The glove was lying there , pointing with its little finger at the tree.
` I 'm sorry for the tree , ' it thought ; ` and I was also at the feast , where the chandeliers glittered.
My life was , so to speak , a ball-night : a pressure of the hand , and I burst ! My memory keeps dwelling upon that , and I have really nothing else to live for ! ' This is what the glove thought , or what it might have thought.
` person_1 's a stupid affair with yonder fir tree , ' said the potsherds.
You see , potsherds think everything is stupid.
` When one is in the dust-cart , ' they said , ` one ought not to give one 's self airs and wear tinsel.
I know that I have been useful in the world , far more useful than such a green stick.
' person_1 was a view that might be taken , and I do n't think it quite a peculiar one ; but for all that the fir tree looked very well : it was like a little poetry in the dust-heap ; and truly there is dust enough in the streets on moving-day.
The way is difficult and troublesome then , and I feel obliged to run away out of the confusion ; or if I am on the tower , I stay there and look down , and it is amusing enough.
-LRB- Illustration : THE REJECTED TRAVELLER.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` There are the good people below , playing at ` changing houses.
' They toil and tug away with their goods and chattels , and the household goblin sits in an old tub and moves with them ; all the little griefs of the lodging and the family , and the real cares and sorrows , move with them out of the old dwelling into the new ; and what gain is there for them or for us in the whole affair ? Yes , there was written long ago the good old maxim : ` Think on the great moving-day of death ! ' person_1 is a serious thought ; I hope it is not disagreeable to you that I should have touched upon it ? person_0 is the most certain messenger after all , in spite of his various occupations.
Yes , person_0 is the omnibus conductor , and he is the passport writer , and he countersigns our service-book , and he is director of the savings bank of life.
Do you understand me ? All the deeds of our life , the great and the little alike , we put into this savings bank ; and when person_0 calls with his omnibus , and we have to step in , and drive with him into the land of eternity , then on the frontier he gives us our service-book as a pass.
As a provision for the journey he takes this or that good deed we have done , and lets it accompany us ; and this may be very pleasant or very terrific.
Nobody has ever escaped this omnibus journey : there is certainly a talk about one who was not allowed to go -- they call him the Wandering Jew : he has to ride behind the omnibus.
If he had been allowed to get in , he would have escaped the clutches of the poets.
`` Just cast your mind 's eye into that great omnibus.
The society is mixed , for king and beggar , genius and idiot , sit side by side : they must go without their property and money ; they have only the service-book and the gift out of the saving 's bank with them.
But which of our deeds is selected and given to us ? Perhaps quite a little one , one that we have forgotten , but which has been recorded -- small as a pea , but the pea can send out a blooming shoot.
The poor bumpkin , who sat on a low stool in the corner , and was jeered at and flouted , will perhaps have his worn-out stool given him as a provision ; and the stool may become a litter in the land of eternity , and rise up then as a throne , gleaming like gold , and blooming as an arbor.
He who always lounged about , and drank the spiced draught of pleasure , that he might forget the wild things he had done here , will have his barrel given to him on the journey , and will have to drink from it as they go on ; and the drink is bright and clear , so that the thoughts remain pure , and all good and noble feelings are awakened , and he sees and feels what in life he could not or would not see ; and then he has within him the punishment , the _ gnawing worm _ , which will not die through time incalculable.
If on the glasses there stood written ' _ oblivion _ , ' on the barrel ' _ remembrance _ ' is inscribed.
`` When I read a good book , an historical work , I always think at last of the poetry of what I am reading , and of the omnibus of death , and wonder which of the hero 's deeds person_0 took out of the savings bank for him , and what provisions he got on the journey into eternity.
There was once a French king -- I have forgotten his name , for the names of good people are sometimes forgotten , even by me , but it will come back some day ; there was a king who , during a famine , became the benefactor of his people ; and the people raised to his memory a monument of snow , with the inscription , ` Quicker than this melts didst thou bring help ! ' I fancy that person_0 , looking back upon the monument , gave him a single snow-flake as provision , a snow-flake that never melts , and this flake floated over his royal head , like a white butterfly , into the land of eternity.
Thus too , there was a person_2 XI.
-- I have remembered his name , for one remembers what is bad -- a trait of him often comes into my thoughts , and I wish one could say the story is not true.
He had his lord high constable executed , and he could execute him , right or wrong ; but he had the innocent children of the constable , one seven and the other eight years old , placed under the scaffold so that the warm blood of their father spurted over them , and then he had them sent to the Bastille , and shut up in iron cages , where not even a coverlet was given them to protect them from the cold.
And King person_2 sent the executioner to them every week , and had a tooth pulled out of the head of each , that they might not be too comfortable ; and the elder of the boys said , ` My mother would die of grief if she knew that my younger brother had to suffer so cruelly ; therefore pull out two of my teeth , and spare him.
' The tears came into the hangman 's eyes , but the king 's will was stronger than the tears ; and every week two little teeth were brought to him on a silver plate ; he had demanded them , and he had them.
I fancy that person_0 took , these two teeth out of the savings bank of life , and gave them to person_2 XI.
, to carry with him on the great journey into the land of immortality : they fly before him like two flames of fire ; they shine and burn , and they bite him , the innocent children 's teeth.
`` Yes , that 's a serious journey , the omnibus ride on the great moving-day ! And when is it to be undertaken ? person_1 's just the serious part of it.
Any day , any how , any minute , the omnibus may draw up.
Which of our deeds will person_0 take out of the savings bank , and give to us as provision ? Let us think of the moving-day that is not marked in the calendar"
There was once a woman and her daughter who lived in a pretty garden with cabbages ; and a little hare came into it , and during the winter time ate all the cabbages.
Then says the mother to the daughter , `` Go into the garden , and chase the hare away"
The girl says to the little hare , `` Sh-sh , hare , you are still eating up all our cabbages"
Says the hare , `` Come , maiden , and seat yourself on my little hare 's tail , and come with me into my little hare 's hut"
The girl will not do it.
Next day the hare comes again and eats the cabbages , then says the mother to the daughter , `` Go into the garden , and drive the hare away"
The girl says to the hare , `` Sh-sh , little hare , you are still eating all the cabbages"
The little hare says , `` Maiden , seat thyself on my little hare 's tail , and come with me into my little hare 's hut"
The maiden refuses.
The third day the hare comes again , and eats the cabbages.
On this the mother says to the daughter , `` Go into the garden , and hunt the hare away"
Says the maiden , `` Sh-sh , little hare , you are still eating all our cabbages"
Says the little hare , `` Come , maiden , seat thyself on my little hare 's tail , and come with me into my little hare 's hut"
The girl seats herself on the little hare 's tail , and then the hare takes her far away to his little hut , and says , `` Now cook green cabbage and millet-seed , and I will invite the wedding-guests"
Then all the wedding-guests assembled.
-LRB- Who were the wedding-guests ? -RRB- That I can tell you as another told it to me.
They were all hares , and the crow was there as parson to marry the bride and bridegroom , and the fox as clerk , and the altar was under the rainbow.
The girl , however , was sad , for she was all alone.
The little hare comes and says , `` Open the doors , open the doors , the wedding-guests are merry"
The bride says nothing , but weeps.
The little hare goes away.
The little hare comes back and says , `` Take off the lid , take off the lid , the wedding-guests are hungry"
The bride again says nothing , and weeps.
The little hare goes away.
The little hare comes back and says , `` Take off the lid , take off the lid , the wedding-guests are waiting"
Then the bride says nothing , and the hare goes away , but she dresses a straw-doll in her clothes , and gives her a spoon to stir with , and sets her by the pan with the millet-seed , and goes back to her mother.
The little hare comes once more and says , `` Take off the lid , take off the lid ,"
and gets up , and strikes the doll on the head so that her cap falls off.
Then the little hare sees that it is not his bride , and goes away and is sorrowful"
There was once a poor woman who had a son , who much wished to travel , but his mother said , `` How canst thou travel ? We have no money at all for thee to take away with thee"
Then said the son , `` I will manage very well for myself ; I will always say , Not much , not much , not much"
So he walked for a long time and always said , `` Not much , not much , not much"
Then he passed by a company of fishermen and said , `` person_0 speed you ! not much , not much , not much"
`` What sayst thou churl , ` not much ?"
' And when the net was drawn out they had not caught much fish.
So one of them fell on the youth with a stick and said , `` Hast thou never seen me threshing ?"
`` What ought I to say , then ?"
asked the youth.
`` Thou must say , ` Get it full , get it full.
'"
After this he again walked a long time , and said , `` Get it full , get it full ,"
until he came to the gallows , where they had got a poor sinner whom they were about to hang.
Then said he , `` Good morning ; get it full , get it full"
`` What sayst thou , knave , get it full ? Dost thou want to make out that there are still more wicked people in the world is not this enough ?"
And he again got some blows on his back.
`` What am I to say , then ?"
said he.
`` Thou must say , may person_0 have pity on the poor soul"
Again the youth walked on for a long while and said , `` May person_0 have pity on the poor soul !"
Then he came to a pit by which stood a knacker who was cutting up a horse.
The youth said , `` Good morning ; person_0 have pity on the poor soul !"
`` What dost thou say , thou ill-tempered knave ?"
and the knacker gave him such a box on the ear , that he could not see out of his eyes.
`` What am I to say , then ?"
`` Thou must say , ` There lies the carrion in the pit ! '"
So he walked on , and always said , `` There lies the carrion in the pit , there lies the carrion in the pit"
And he came to a cart full of people , so he said , `` Good morning , there lies the carrion in the pit !"
Then the cart pushed him into a hole , and the driver took his whip and cracked it upon the youth , till he was forced to crawl back to his mother , and as long as he lived he never went out a-travelling again"
There was once on a time a little girl whose father and mother were dead , and she was so poor that she no longer had any little room to live in , or bed to sleep in , and at last she had nothing else but the clothes she was wearing and a little bit of bread in her hand which some charitable soul had given her.
She was , however , good and pious.
And as she was thus forsaken by all the world , she went forth into the open country , trusting in the good God.
Then a poor man met her , who said , `` Ah , give me something to eat , I am so hungry !"
She reached him the whole of her piece of bread , and said , `` May God bless it to thy use ,"
and went onwards.
Then came a child who moaned and said , `` My head is so cold , give me something to cover it with"
So she took off her hood and gave it to him ; and when she had walked a little farther , she met another child who had no jacket and was frozen with cold.
Then she gave it her own ; and a little farther on one begged for a frock , and she gave away that also.
At length she got into a forest and it had already become dark , and there came yet another child , and asked for a little shirt , and the good little girl thought to herself , `` It is a dark night and no one sees thee , thou canst very well give thy little shirt away ,"
and took it off , and gave away that also.
And as she so stood , and had not one single thing left , suddenly some stars from heaven fell down , and they were nothing else but hard smooth pieces of money , and although she had just given her little shirt away , she had a new one which was of the very finest linen.
Then she gathered together the money into this , and was rich all the days of her life"
There was once a little girl who was obstinate and inquisitive , and when her parents told her to do anything , she did not obey them , so how could she fare well ? One day she said to her parents , `` I have heard so much of Frau Trude , I will go to her some day.
People say that everything about her does look so strange , and that there are such odd things in her house , that I have become quite curious !"
Her parents absolutely forbade her , and said , `` Frau Trude is a bad woman , who does wicked things , and if thou goest to her ; thou art no longer our child"
But the maiden did not let herself be turned aside by her parent 's prohibition , and still went to Frau Trude.
And when she got to her , Frau Trude said , `` Why art thou so pale ?"
`` Ah ,"
she replied , and her whole body trembled , `` I have been so terrified at what I have seen"
`` What hast thou seen ?"
`` I saw a black man on your steps"
`` That was a collier"
`` Then I saw a green man"
`` That was a huntsman"
`` After that I saw a blood-red man"
`` That was a butcher"
`` Ah , Frau Trude , I was terrified ; I looked through the window and saw not you , but , as I verily believe , the devil himself with a head of fire"
`` Oho !"
said she , `` then thou hast seen the witch in her proper costume.
I have been waiting for thee , and wanting thee a long time already ; thou shalt give me some light"
Then she changed the girl into a block of wood , and threw it into the fire.
And when it was in full blaze she sat down close to it , and warmed herself by it , and said , `` That shines bright for once in a way"
A father was one day sitting at dinner with his wife and his children , and a good friend who had come on a visit was with them.
And as they thus sat , and it was striking twelve o'clock , the stranger saw the door open , and a very pale child dressed in snow-white clothes came in.
It did not look around , and it did not speak ; but went straight into the next room.
Soon afterwards it came back , and went out at the door again in the same quiet manner.
On the second and on the third day , it came also exactly in the same way.
At last the stranger asked the father to whom the beautiful child that went into the next room every day at noon belonged ? `` I have never seen it ,"
said he , neither did he know to whom it could belong.
The next day when it again came , the stranger pointed it out to the father , who however did not see it , and the mother and the children also all saw nothing.
On this the stranger got up , went to the room door , opened it a little , and peeped in.
Then he saw the child sitting on the ground , and digging and seeking about industriously amongst the crevices between the boards of the floor , but when it saw the stranger , it disappeared.
He now told what he had seen and described the child exactly , and the mother recognized it , and said , `` Ah , it is my dear child who died a month ago"
They took up the boards and found two farthings which the child had once received from its mother that it might give them to a poor man ; it , however , had thought , `` Thou canst buy thyself a biscuit for that ,"
and had kept the farthings , and hidden them in the openings between the boards ; and therefore it had had no rest in its grave , and had come every day at noon to seek for these farthings.
The parents gave the money at once to a poor man , and after that the child was never seen again"
A louse and a flea kept house together and were brewing beer in an egg-shell.
Then the little louse fell in and burnt herself.
On this the little flea began to scream loudly.
Then said the little room-door , `` Little flea , why art thou screaming ?"
`` Because the louse has burnt herself"
Then the little door began to creak.
On this a little broom in the corner said , `` Why art thou creaking , little door ?"
`` Have I not reason to creak ?"
`` The little louse has burnt herself , The little flea is weeping"
So the little broom began to sweep frantically.
Then a little cart passed by and said , `` Why art thou sweeping , little broom ?"
`` Have I not reason to sweep ?"
`` The little louse has burnt herself , The little flea is weeping , The little door is creaking"
So the little cart said , `` Then I will run ,"
and began to run wildly.
Then said the ash-heap by which it ran , `` Why art thou running so , little cart ?"
`` Have I not reason to run ?"
`` The little louse has burnt herself , The little flea is weeping , The little door is creaking , The little broom is sweeping"
The ash-heap said , `` Then I will burn furiously ,"
and began to burn in clear flames.
A little tree stood near the ash-heap and said , `` Ash-heap , why art thou burning ?"
`` Have I not reason to burn ?"
`` The little louse has burnt herself , The little flea is weeping , The little door is creaking , The little broom is sweeping , The little cart is running"
The little tree said , `` Then I will shake myself ,"
and began to shake herself so that all her leaves fell off ; a girl who came up with her water-pitcher saw that , and said , `` Little tree , why art thou shaking thyself ?"
`` Have I not reason to shake myself ?"
`` The little louse has burnt herself , The little flea is weeping , The little door is creaking , The little broom is sweeping , The little cart is running , The little ash-heap is burning"
On this the girl said , `` Then I will break my little water-pitcher ,"
and she broke her little water-pitcher.
Then said the little spring from which ran the water , `` Girl , why art thou breaking thy water-jug ?"
`` Have I not reason to break my water-jug ?"
`` The little louse has burnt herself , The little flea is weeping , The little door is creaking , The little broom is sweeping , The little cart is running , The little ash-heap is burning , The little tree is shaking itself"
`` Oh , ho !"
said the spring , `` then I will begin to flow ,"
and began to flow violently.
And in the water everything was drowned , the girl , the little tree , the little ash-heap , the little cart , the broom , the little door , the little flea , the little louse , all together"
One fine winter 's day person_0 Coon came upon the queerest tracks in the snow.
They were huge -- a great deal bigger , even , than bear-tracks , which person_0 had sometimes seen , for once in a while , before the weather grew too cold , and he fell into his winter 's sleep , a bear would come down into the valley from his home on Blue Mountain.
But these were six times as big as bear tracks.
And person_0 felt a shiver of fear run up and down his back.
He followed the trail a little way.
But he was very careful.
He was always ready to scramble up a tree , in case he should suddenly see the strange animal -- or rather , in case the strange animal should see HIM.
The great tracks led straight toward Farmer Green 's house.
And person_0 did not want to go there.
So he hurried home to ask his mother what he had found.
Mrs.
Coon listened to person_0 's story.
`` I think it must be the monster that almost caught me in the road last summer ,"
said person_0 , meaning the automobile that had given him a great fright.
`` Maybe he 's come back again to catch Farmer Green and his family.
Do you suppose he 's eaten them up ?"
Mrs.
Coon was puzzled.
And she was somewhat alarmed , too.
She wanted to see those strange tracks herself.
So she told her other children not to step a foot out of the house until she came back.
And then she asked person_0 to run along and show her where he had come upon the monster 's trail.
person_0 Coon felt very important , as he led the way across the swamp and into the woods.
It was not often that he could show his mother anything.
And he was so proud that he almost forgot his fright.
`` I guess you 're glad I have sharp eyes ,"
he said , as they hurried along.
`` If the tracks are as big as you say they are , your eyes would n't have to be very sharp to see them ,"
his mother told him.
Mrs.
Coon never liked to hear her children boast.
She knew that boasting is one of the most unpleasant things anyone can do.
`` Well -- maybe you do n't think I saw the monster 's tracks at all ,"
said person_0.
`` Maybe you do n't think I heard him screech --"
`` When did you hear him screech ?"
Mrs.
Coon asked.
`` This is the first you 've said about SCREECHING.
When was it ?"
`` Last summer ,"
person_0 answered.
Mrs.
Coon did n't smile.
Perhaps she was too worried for that.
`` It may not be the same monster ,"
she said.
`` It may not be a monster at all"
But by this time person_0 was sure he was right.
He was sure he knew more than his mother.
`` Why ca n't we go right over to Farmer Green 's and take some of his chickens ?"
he asked.
`` The monster has probably eaten him by this time , and all his family , too"
But Mrs.
Coon would do no such thing.
`` Show me the tracks ,"
she said firmly.
And so they went on into the woods.
`` There they are !"
person_0 cried , a few minutes later.
`` See , Mother ! They 're even bigger than I said"
He heard a funny noise behind him , then.
And when person_0 Coon looked around he saw that his mother was actually holding her sides , she was laughing so hard.
`` Those are Farmer Green 's tracks ,"
she said , as soon as she could stop laughing long enough to speak.
`` What -- as big as that ?"
person_0 pointed at the huge prints in the snow.
`` Snowshoes !"
Mrs.
Coon said.
`` He was wearing snowshoes -- great frames made of thongs and sticks , to keep him from sinking into the snow"
So that was all there was to person_0 's monster.
Somehow , he was disappointed.
But he was very glad he had said nothing to Jasper Jay about his strange animal.
For if he had , he knew he would never have heard the last of it.
And person_0 was glad about another thing , too.
He felt very happy that his mother had not let him go after Farmer Green 's chickens"
person_0 Coon was frightened ; he had just waked up and he heard a sound that was exactly like the noise Farmer Green and his hired man had made when they cut down the tall chestnut tree where he was perched.
`` Oh , Mother ! What is it ?"
he cried.
`` The loggers have come ,"
Mrs.
Coon said.
`` They are cutting down all the big trees in the swamp"
`` Then we 'll have to move , wo n't we ?"
person_0 asked.
`` No ! They wo n't touch this tree ,"
his mother told him.
`` It 's an old tree , and hollow -- so they wo n't chop it down.
It 's only the good sound trees that they 'll take"
`` But I thought this was a good tree"
person_0 was puzzled.
`` So it is , my son ! It 's a good tree for us.
But not for the loggers.
They would have little use for it"
person_0 Coon felt better when he heard that.
And he had a good deal of fun , peeping down at the loggers and watching them work.
But he took care that they should not see HIM.
He knew what their bright axes could do.
When night came person_0 had still more fun.
When the loggers were asleep person_0 went to their camp in the woods beside the brook and he found many good things to eat.
He did not know the names of all the goodies ; but he ate them just the same.
He ` specially liked some potatoes which the careless cook had left in a pan near the open camp-fire.
The fire was out.
And the pan rested on a stump close beside it.
person_0 Coon climbed up and crawled right inside the pan.
And after he had had one taste of those potatoes he grew so excited -- they were so good -- that he tipped the pan off the stump and the potatoes rolled right into the ashes.
person_0 had jumped to one side , when the tin pan fell.
It made a great clatter ; and he kept very still for a few moments , while he listened.
But no one stirred.
And then person_0 jumped plump into the ashes.
WHEW ! He jumped out again as fast as he could ; for beneath the ashes there were plenty of hot coals.
person_0 stood in them for not more than three seconds , but that was quite long enough.
The bottoms of his feet burned as if a hundred hornets had stung them.
He stood first on one foot and then on another.
If you could have seen him you would have thought person_0 was dancing.
And you might have laughed , because he looked funny.
But person_0 Coon did not laugh.
In fact , he came very near crying.
And he did not wait to eat another mouthful.
He limped along toward home.
And it was several days before he stirred out of his mother 's house again.
He just lay in his bed and waited until his burns were well again.
It was very hard.
For person_0 did not like to think of all those good things to eat that he was missing.
And he hoped the loggers would not go away before his feet were well again"
Although person_0 Coon never could get Jimmy Rabbit and his brother to play barber-shop with him again , person_0 saw no reason why he should not play the game without them.
So one day he led his brother person_1 over to the old hollow sycamore.
His sisters , Fluffy and Cutey , wanted to go too.
But person_0 would not let them.
`` Girls ca n't be barbers ,"
he said.
And of course they could find no answer to that.
As soon as person_0 and person_1 reached the old sycamore I am sorry to say that a dispute arose.
Each of them wanted to use his own tail for the barber 's pole.
They could n't both stick their tails through the hole in the tree at the same time.
So they finally agreed to take turns.
Playing barber-shop was n't so much fun as they had expected , because nobody would come near to get his hair cut.
You see , the smaller forest - people were all afraid to go inside that old sycamore where person_0 and person_1 were.
There was no telling when the two brothers might get so hungry they would seize and eat a rabbit or a squirrel or a chipmunk.
And you know it is n't wise to run any such risk as that.
person_0 offered to cut person_1 's hair.
But person_1 remembered what his mother had said when person_0 came home with his moustache gone and his head all rough and uneven.
So person_1 would n't let person_0 touch him.
But HE offered to cut person_0 's hair -- what there was left of it.
`` No , thank you !"
said person_0.
`` I only get my hair cut once a month"
Of course , he had never had his hair cut except that once , in his whole life.
Now , since there was so little to do inside the hollow tree , person_0 and person_1 kept quarreling.
person_1 would no sooner stick his tail through the hole in the side of the tree than person_0 would want HIS turn.
And when person_0 had succeeded in squeezing HIS tail out through the opening person_1 would insist that person_0 's time was up.
It was person_0 's turn , and person_1 was shouting to him to stand aside and give him a chance.
`` I wo n't !"
said person_0.
`` I 'm going to stay here just as long as I please"
The words were hardly out of his mouth when he gave a sharp squeal , as if something hurt him.
And he tried to pull his tail out of the hole.
He wanted to get it out now.
But alas ! it would not come ! It was caught fast ! And the harder person_0 pulled the more it hurt him.
`` Go out and see what 's the matter !"
he cried to person_1.
But person_1 would n't stir.
He was afraid to leave the shelter of the hollow tree.
`` It may be a bear that has hold of your tail ,"
he told person_0.
And somehow , that idea made person_0 tremble all over.
`` Oh , dear ! oh , dear !"
he wailed.
`` What shall I do ? Oh ! whatever shall I do ?"
He began to cry.
And person_1 cried too.
How person_0 wished that his mother was there to tell him what to do ! But he knew of no way to fetch her.
Even if she were at home she could never hear him calling from inside the tree.
So person_0 gave up all hope of her helping.
`` Please , Mr.
Bear , let go of my tail !"
he cried , when he could stand the pain no longer.
The only answer that came was a low growl , which frightened person_0 and person_1 more than ever.
And then , just as they both began to howl at the top of their voices person_0 's tail was suddenly freed.
He was pulling on it so hard that he fell all in a heap on the floor of the barber-shop.
And that surprised him.
But he was still more surprised when he heard his mother say -- `` Stop crying and come out -- both of you !"
person_0 and person_1 scrambled out of the hollow sycamore.
person_0 looked all around.
But there was no bear to be seen anywhere -- no one but his mother.
`` Did you frighten the bear away , Mother ?"
he asked.
`` There was no bear ,"
Mrs.
Coon told him.
`` And it 's lucky for you that there was n't.
I saw your tail sticking out of this tree and I thought I would teach you a lesson.
Now , do n't ever do such a foolish thing again.
Just think what a fix you would have been in if Johnnie Green had come along.
He could have caught you just as easily as anything"
person_0 Coon was so glad to be free once more that he promised to be good forever after.
And he was just as good as any little coon could be -- all the rest of that day"
One night person_0 Coon was strolling along the road that wound through the valley.
He was in no hurry , for he had just left Farmer Green 's apple orchard , where he had bolted all the apples he could possibly eat.
The night was dark and though it was not very late , all the country people seemed to be in bed.
There were no farmers driving along the road.
person_0 had it all to himself.
And so he walked slowly homewards.
It was then that the terrible monster almost caught him.
This is how it all happened.
There was a br-br-br-r-r-r in the air.
person_0 really should have heard it long before he did.
But he had eaten so many apples that he had begun to feel sleepy ; and his ears were not so sharp as they should have been.
And when at last person_0 heard that br - r-r-r it was quite loud.
He was startled.
And he stopped right in the middle of the road to listen.
person_0 had never heard such a sound before.
The strange animal was on him before he knew it.
Its glaring eyes blinded him.
And if it had not screamed at him person_0 would never have escaped.
It was the terrible screech of the monster which finally made person_0 jump.
It was a frightful cry -- like six wildcats all wailing together.
And person_0 leaped to one side of the road just before the monster reached him.
The great creature went past person_0 like the wind and tore on up the hill.
He seemed to be running so fast that he could not stop.
person_0 could hear him panting as he climbed the sharp rise of the road.
person_0 Coon hurried away.
He wanted to get home before the monster could stop and come back to look for him.
When person_0 told his mother about his narrow escape Mrs.
Coon became much excited.
She felt sure that person_0 was not mistaken , for had she not heard that strange cry herself ? There it was again ! Woo-ooo-ooo-oo-o ! It began low , rose to a shriek , and then died away again.
Mrs.
Coon and person_0 climbed to the very top of their old poplar and gazed down the valley.
`` Look , Mother !"
person_0 cried.
`` He 's stopped at Farmer Green 's ! You can see his eyes from here !"
Mrs.
Coon looked.
Sure enough ! It was just as person_0 said.
And that horrid call echoed across the valley once more.
Farmer Green stuck his head out of his chamber-window , to see what the man in the automobile wanted.
`` Where 's the nearest village , please ?"
the stranger asked.
And after Farmer Green had told him the man drove his car on again.
From their tree-top person_0 and his mother watched the monster dash down the valley.
They knew he had gone , because they could see the gleam of those awful eyes.
`` Do you suppose he ate up Farmer Green and his family ?"
person_0 asked in a frightened voice.
`` I hope so ,"
she said.
`` Then perhaps there 'll be no more traps in the woods"
`` But who would plant the corn ?"
person_0 asked.
Mrs.
Coon did not appear to hear his question"
person_0 Coon was so fat and round that he looked like a ball of fur , with a plumelike tail for a handle.
But if you looked at him closely you would have seen a pair of very bright eyes watching you.
person_0 loved to eat.
Yes -- he loved eating better than anything else in the world.
That was what made him so fat.
And that , too , was what led him into many adventures.
Close by a swamp , which lay down in the valley , between Blue Mountain and Swift River , person_0 Coon lived with his mother and his brother and his two sisters.
Among them all there was what grown people call `` a strong family resemblance ,"
which is the same thing as saying that they all looked very much alike.
The tail of each one of them -- mother and children too -- had six black rings around it.
Each of them had a dark brown patch of fur across the face , like a mask.
And -- what do you think ? -- each of them , even person_0 and his brother and his sisters , had a stiff , white moustache ! Of course , though they all looked so much alike , you would have known which was Mrs.
Coon , for she was so much bigger than her children.
And you would have known which was person_0 -- he was so much rounder than his brother and his sisters.
Mrs.
Coon 's home was in the hollow branch of an old tree.
It was a giant of a tree -- a poplar close by a brook which ran into the swamp -- and the branch which was Mrs.
Coon 's home was as big as most tree-trunks are.
Blackie was person_0 's brother -- for the mask on his face was just a little darker than the others '.
Fluffy was one of person_0 's sisters , because her fur was just a little fluffier than the other children 's.
And Cutey was the other sister 's name , because she was so quaint.
Now , person_0 Coon was forever looking around for something to eat.
He was never satisfied with what his mother brought home for him.
No matter how big a dinner Mrs.
Coon set before her family , as soon as he had finished eating his share person_0 would wipe his white moustache carefully -- for all the world like some old gentleman -- and hurry off in search of something more.
Sometimes he went to the edge of the brook and tried to catch fish by hooking them out of the water with his sharp claws.
Sometimes he went over to the swamp and hunted for duck among the tall reeds.
And though he did not yet know how to catch a duck , he could always capture a frog or two ; and person_0 ate them as if he had n't had a mouthful of food for days.
To tell the truth , person_0 would eat almost anything he could get -- nuts , cherries , wild grapes , blackberries , bugs , small snakes , fish , chickens , honey -- there was no end to the different kinds of food he liked.
He ate everything.
And he always wanted more.
`` Is this all there is ?"
person_0 Coon asked his mother one day.
He had gobbled up every bit of the nice fish that Mrs.
Coon had brought home for him.
It was gone in no time at all.
Mrs.
Coon sighed.
She had heard that question so many times ; and she wished that for once person_0 might have all the dinner he wanted.
`` Yes -- that 's all ,"
she said , `` and I should think that it was enough for a young coon like you"
person_0 said nothing more.
He wiped his moustache on the back of his hand -LRB- I hope you 'll never do that ! -RRB- and without another word he started off to see what he could find to eat"
It made person_0 Coon feel sad , just to think that there was that field full of corn , and that he could never eat all of it.
But person_0 made up his mind that he would do the best he could.
He would visit the cornfield every night and feast on those sweet , tender kernels.
The very next night person_0 set out toward Farmer Green 's.
It was hardly dark.
But person_0 could not wait any longer.
He could not even wait for his mother and his sisters and his brother.
He hurried away alone.
And when he came in sight of the cornfield he felt better.
He had been the least bit afraid that the corn might be gone.
He thought that maybe Farmer Green had picked it , or that some of the forest people had eaten it all.
But there it was -- a forest of corn , waving and rustling in the moonlight as the breeze touched it.
person_0 felt very happy as he slipped through the rail-fence.
I would n't dare say how many ears of corn person_0 ate that night.
And he would have eaten more , too , if it had n't been for just one thing.
A dog barked.
And that spoiled person_0 's fun.
For the dog was altogether too near for person_0 to feel safe.
He even dropped the ear of corn he was gnawing and hurried toward the woods.
It was lucky for person_0 that he started when he did.
For that dog was close behind him in no time.
There was only one thing to do : person_0 knew that he must climb a tree at once.
So he made for the nearest tree in sight -- a big , spreading oak , which stood all alone just beyond the fence.
And as person_0 crouched on a limb he felt safe enough , though the dog barked and whined , and leaped against the tree , and made a great fuss.
person_0 looked down at the dog and scolded a little.
He was not afraid.
But it made him cross to be driven out of the cornfield.
And he wished the dog would go away.
But the dog -- it was Farmer Green 's Spot -- the dog had no idea of leaving.
He stayed right there and barked so loudly that it was not long before Farmer Green and his hired man came in sight.
And with them was Johnnie Green and a little , young dog that had just been given to him.
When Farmer Green saw person_0 he seemed disappointed.
`` He 's too young to bother with ,"
he said.
`` His skin 's not worth much.
We 'll go ` long and see what we can find"
But Johnnie Green stayed behind.
He wanted that young coon.
And he intended to have him , too.
Leaving the young dog to watch person_0 Coon , Johnnie went back to the farmhouse.
After a while he appeared again with an axe over his shoulder.
And when he began to chop away at the big oak , person_0 Coon felt very uneasy.
Whenever Johnnie drove his axe into the tree , both the tree and person_0 shivered together.
And person_0 began to wish he had stayed away from the cornfield.
But not for long , because Johnnie Green soon gave up the idea of chopping down the big oak.
The wood was so hard to cut , and the tree was so big , that Johnnie had not chopped long before he saw that it would take him all night to cut through it.
He looked up longingly at person_0 Coon.
And Johnnie started to climb the tree himself.
But the higher he climbed , the higher person_0 climbed.
And Johnnie knew that he could never catch that plump young coon in that way.
At last Johnnie Green started off , calling his dog after him.
And then person_0 Coon came down.
But he did not go back to the cornfield.
He decided that he had had adventures enough for one night.
But person_0 had learned something -- at least he thought he had.
For he made up his mind that once he climbed a tree , no man could reach him.
TREES COULD NOT BE CHOPPED DOWN ! That was what person_0 believed.
Perhaps you will know , later , whether person_0 ever found out that he was mistaken"
It was mid-summer when person_0 Coon had what he then believed to be the finest time in all his life.
And later , when he was older , he still thought that nothing had ever happened to him that was quite so enjoyable as that surprise his mother gave him when he was a young coon.
Of course it was something to eat -- the surprise.
You must have guessed that , knowing person_0 Coon as you do.
`` Come , children !"
Mrs.
Coon said.
`` Come with me ! I 'm going to give you a treat -- something specially nice"
`` Is it something to eat ?"
person_0 asked , as they started off in the direction of Farmer Green 's fields.
`` Yes -- and the best thing you ever tasted ,"
Mrs.
Coon said.
person_0 was greatly excited.
His little bright eyes turned green in the moonlight.
He wondered what the surprise would be.
And , as usual , he was very hungry.
He walked close beside his mother , for he wanted to be the first to taste the surprise.
You would think that he would have wanted his two sisters to taste it first , and his brother Blackie , too.
But you must not forget that person_0 was greedy.
And greedy people are not thoughtful of others.
When Mrs.
Coon turned out of the lane and crawled through the fence , person_0 squeezed between the rails very nimbly , for him.
`` Here we are !"
said his mother.
person_0 looked about him.
They stood in a field grown high with tall stalks of some sort , which turned to green , ribbon-like leaves half way up from the ground.
person_0 grunted.
He was very impolite , you see.
`` Well -- what is there to eat that 's so fine ?"
he asked.
`` This stuff is n't good.
It 's like eating reeds"
He had already bitten into one of the stalks.
`` What do you call that ?"
Mrs.
Coon asked.
She showed person_0 a long roll of green that grew out of one of the stalks.
`` That 's something like a cattail ,"
said person_0.
`` It is n't good to eat"
`` Have you ever tried one ?"
asked his mother.
`` N -- no ,"
Patty said.
`` But Freddie Bluejay told me they were n't good"
`` He did , did he ?"
Mrs.
Coon said nothing more.
She stood up on her hind legs and pulled one of the tall stalks down until she could reach that long , green thing that grew there.
In a jiffy she had torn it from its stalk.
And then she stripped the green covering off it.
`` Try that !"
said Mrs.
Coon with a smile.
Of course it was person_0 who tasted it first.
He took a good mouthful of the white kernels , and he was overjoyed.
Such sweetness ! Such delicious , milky juice ! It was a moment that person_0 never forgot.
person_0 began tearing down the stalks for himself and he never said another word until at last he simply had to stop eating just to catch his breath.
`` What 's its name , Mother ?"
he inquired.
`` Corn , my child"
`` Well , why does n't Freddie Bluejay like it ?"
person_0 asked.
`` He 's probably very fond of corn ,"
said Mrs.
Coon.
`` And I 've no doubt he was afraid that you would eat up this whole field , once you started"
`` I 'd like to ,"
said person_0 , with a sigh.
`` I 'd like to eat all the corn in the world"
When person_0 Coon started off alone to find something more to eat , after finishing the fish that his mother had brought home for him , he did not know that he was going to have an adventure.
He nosed about among the bushes and the tall grasses and caught a few bugs and a frog or two.
But he did n't think that THAT was much.
He did n't seem to have much luck , down on the ground.
So he climbed a tall hemlock , to see if he could find a squirrel 's nest , or some bird 's eggs.
person_0 loved to climb trees.
Up in the big hemlock he forgot , for a time , that he was still hungry.
It was delightful to feel the branches swaying under him , and the bright sunshine was warm upon his back.
He climbed almost to the very tip-top of the tree and wound himself around the straight stem.
The thick , springy branches held him safely , and soon person_0 was fast asleep.
Next to eating , person_0 loved sleeping.
And now he had a good nap.
person_0 Coon woke up at last , yawned , and slowly unwound himself from the stem of the tree.
He was terribly hungry now.
And he felt that he simply MUST find something to eat at once.
Without going down to the ground , person_0 climbed over into the top of another big tree and his little beady , bright eyes began searching all the branches carefully.
Pretty soon person_0 smiled.
He smiled because he was pleased.
And he was pleased because he saw exactly what he had been looking for.
Not far below him was a big nest , built of sticks and lined with bark and moss.
It was a crow 's nest , person_0 decided , and he lost no time in slipping down to the crotch of the tree where the nest was perched.
There were four white eggs in the nest -- the biggest crow 's eggs person_0 had ever seen.
And he began to eat them hungrily.
His nose became smeared with egg , but he did n't mind that at all.
He kept thinking how good the eggs tasted -- and how he wished there were more of them.
There was a sudden rush through the branches of the tall tree.
And person_0 Coon caught a hard blow on his head.
He felt something sharp sink into his back , too.
And he clutched at the edge of the nest to keep from falling.
person_0 was surprised , to say the least , for he had never known crows to fight like that.
And he was frightened , because his back hurt.
He could n't fight , because he was afraid he would fall if he let go of the nest.
There was nothing to do but run home as fast as he could.
person_0 tried to hurry ; but there was that bird , beating and clawing his back , and pulling him first one way and then another.
He began to think he would never reach home.
But at last he came to the old poplar where his mother lived.
And soon , to his great joy , he reached the hole in the big branch ; and you may well believe that person_0 was glad to slip down into the darkness where his mother , and his brother Blackie , and Fluffy and Cutey his sisters , were all fast asleep.
He was glad , because he knew that no crow could follow him down there.
Mrs.
Coon waked up.
She saw that person_0 's back was sadly torn -LRB- for coons , you know , can see in the dark just as well as you can see in the daylight -RRB-.
`` What on earth is the matter ?"
she exclaimed.
Poor person_0 told her.
He cried a little , because his back hurt him , and because he was so glad to be safe at home once more.
`` What color were those eggs ?"
Mrs.
Coon inquired.
`` White !"
said person_0.
`` Ah , ha !"
Mrs.
Coon said.
`` Do n't you remember that crows ' eggs are a blueish green ? That must have been a goshawk 's nest.
And a goshawk is the fiercest of all the hawks there are.
It 's no wonder your back is clawed.
Come here and let me look at it"
person_0 Coon felt quite proud , as his mother examined the marks of the goshawk 's cruel claws.
And he did n't feel half as sorry for himself as you might think , for he remembered how good the eggs had tasted.
He only wished there had been a dozen of them"
For once Fatty Coon was not hungry.
He had eaten so much of Farmer Green 's corn that he felt as if he could not swallow another mouthful.
He was strolling homewards through the woods when someone called to him.
It was Jimmy person_0.
`` Where are you going , Fatty ?"
Jimmy person_0 asked.
`` Home !"
said Fatty.
`` Are you hungry ?"
Jimmy person_0 asked anxiously.
`` I should say not !"
Fatty answered.
`` I 've just had the finest meal I ever ate in my life"
Jimmy person_0 seemed to be relieved to hear that.
`` Come on over and play ,"
he said.
`` My brother and I are playing barber - shop over in the old sycamore tree ; and we need you"
`` All right !"
said Fatty.
It was not often that any of the smaller forest-people were willing to play with him , because generally Fatty could n't help getting hungry and then he usually tried to eat his playmates.
`` What do you need me for ?"
Fatty asked , as he trudged along beside Jimmy person_0.
`` We need you for the barber 's pole ,"
Jimmy explained.
`` You can come inside the hollow tree and stick your tail out through a hole.
It will make a fine barber 's pole -- though the stripes DO run the wrong way , to be sure"
Fatty Coon was greatly pleased.
He looked around at his tail and felt very proud.
`` I 've got a beautiful tail -- have n't I ?"
he asked.
`` Um -- yes !"
Jimmy person_0 replied , `` though I must say it is n't one that I would care for myself.
But come along ! There may be people waiting to get their hair cut"
Sure enough ! When they reached the make-believe barber-shop there was a gray squirrel inside , and Jimmy person_0 's brother was busily snipping the fur off Mr.
Squirrel 's head.
`` How much do you charge for a hair-cut ?"
Fatty asked.
`` Oh , that depends !"
Jimmy person_0 said.
`` Mr.
Squirrel will pay us six cabbage leaves.
But if we were to cut your hair we 'd have to ask more.
We 'd want a dozen cabbage leaves , at least"
`` Well , do n't I get anything for the use of my tail ?"
Fatty asked.
He had already stuck it out through the hole ; and he had half a mind to pull it in again.
Jimmy person_0 and his brother whispered together for a few moments.
`` I 'll tell you what we 'll do ,"
Jimmy said.
`` If you 'll let us use your tail for the barber 's pole , we 'll cut your hair free.
Is n't that fair enough ?"
Fatty Coon was satisfied.
But he insisted that Jimmy begin to cut his hair at once.
`` I 'm doing my part of the work now ,"
he pointed out.
`` So there 's no reason why you should n't do yours"
With that Jimmy person_0 began.
He clipped and snipped at Fatty 's head , pausing now and then to see the effect.
He smiled once in a while , behind Fatty 's back , because Fatty certainly did look funny with his fur all ragged and uneven.
`` Moustache trimmed ?"
Jimmy person_0 asked , when he had finished with Fatty 's head.
`` Certainly -- of course !"
Fatty Coon answered.
And pretty soon Fatty 's long white moustache lay on the floor of the barber-shop.
Fatty felt a bit uneasy as he looked down and saw his beautiful moustache lying at his feet.
`` You have n't cut it too short , I hope ,"
he said.
`` No , indeed !"
Jimmy person_0 assured him.
`` It 's the very latest style"
`` What on earth has happened to you ?"
Mrs.
Coon cried , -- when Fatty reached home that night.
`` Have you been in a fire ?"
`` It 's the latest style , Mother ,"
Fatty told her.
`` At least , that 's what Jimmy person_0 says"
He felt the least bit uneasy again.
`` Did you let that Jimmy person_0 do that to you ?"
Mrs.
Coon asked.
Fatty hung his head.
He said nothing at all.
But his mother knew.
`` Well ! you ARE a sight !"
she exclaimed.
`` It will be months before you look like my child again.
I shall be ashamed to go anywhere with you"
Fatty Coon felt very foolish.
And there was just one thing that kept him from crying.
And THAT was THIS : he made up his mind that when he played barber-shop with Jimmy person_0 again he would get even with him.
But when the next day came , Fatty could n't find Jimmy person_0 and his brother anywhere.
They kept out of sight.
But they had told all the other forest-people about the trick they had played on Fatty Coon.
And everywhere Fatty went he heard nothing but hoots and jeers and laughs.
He felt very silly.
And he wished that he might meet Jimmy person_0 and his brother"
The winter was fast going.
And one fine day in February person_0 Coon crept out of his mother 's house to enjoy the warm sunshine -- and see what he could find to eat.
person_0 was much thinner than he had been in the fall.
He had spent so much of the time sleeping that he had really eaten very little.
And now he hardly knew himself as he looked at his sides.
They no longer stuck out as they had once.
After nosing about the swamp and the woods all the afternoon person_0 decided that there was no use in trying to get a meal there.
The ground was covered with snow.
And except for rabbit tracks -- and a few squirrels ' -- he could find nothing that even suggested food.
And looking at those tracks only made him hungrier than ever.
For a few minutes person_0 thought deeply.
And then he turned about and went straight toward Farmer Green 's place.
He waited behind the fence just beyond Farmer Green 's house ; and when it began to grow dark he crept across the barnyard.
As person_0 passed a small , low building he noticed a delicious smell.
And he stopped right there.
He had gone far enough.
The door was open a little way.
And after one quick look all around -- to make sure there was nobody to see him -- person_0 slipped inside.
It was almost dark inside Farmer Green 's smokehouse -- for that was what the small , low building was called.
It was almost dark ; but person_0 could see just as well as you and I can see in the daytime.
There was a long row of hams hung up in a line.
Underneath them were white ashes , where Farmer Green had built wood fires , to smoke the hams.
But the fires were out , now ; and person_0 was in no danger of being burned.
The hams were what person_0 Coon had smelled.
And the hams were what person_0 intended to eat.
He decided that he would eat them all -- though of course he could never have done that -- at least , not in one night ; nor in a week , either.
But when it came to eating , person_0 's courage never failed him.
He would have tried to eat an elephant , if he had had the chance.
person_0 did not stop to look long at that row of hams.
He climbed a post that ran up the side of the house and he crept out along the pole from which the hams were hung.
He stopped at the very first ham he came to.
There was no sense in going any further.
And person_0 dropped on top of the ham and in a twinkling he had torn off a big , delicious mouthful.
person_0 could not eat fast enough.
He wished he had two mouths -- he was so hungry.
But he did very well , with only ONE.
In no time at all he had made a great hole in the ham.
And he had no idea of stopping.
But he did stop.
He stopped very suddenly.
For the first thing he knew , something threw him right down upon the floor.
And the ham fell on top of him and nearly knocked him senseless.
He choked and spluttered ; for the ashes filled his mouth and his eyes , and his ears , too.
For a moment he lay there on his back ; but soon he managed to kick the heavy ham off his stomach and then he felt a little better.
But he was terribly frightened.
And though his eyes smarted so he could hardly see , he sprang up and found the doorway.
person_0 swallowed a whole mouthful of ashes as he dashed across the barnyard.
And he never stopped running until he was almost home.
He was puzzled.
Try as he would , he could n't decide what it was that had flung him upon the floor.
And when he told his mother about his adventure -- as he did a whole month later -- she did n't know exactly what had happened , either.
`` It was some sort of trap , probably ,"
Mrs.
Coon said.
But for once Mrs.
Coon was mistaken.
It was very simple.
In his greedy haste person_0 had merely bitten through the cord that fastened the ham to the pole.
And of course it had at once fallen , carrying person_0 with it ! But what do you suppose ? Afterward , when person_0 had grown up , and had children of his own , he often told them about the time he had escaped from the trap in Farmer Green 's smokehouse.
person_0 's children thought it very exciting.
It was their favorite story.
And they made their father tell it over and over again"
After his adventure with the goshawk Fatty Coon did not go near the tree-tops for a long time.
Whenever he left home he would crawl down the old poplar tree in which he lived ; and he would n't climb a single tree until he came home again.
Somehow , he felt safer on the ground.
You see , he had n't forgotten the fright he had had , nor how the goshawk 's claws had hurt his back.
It was just three days after his scare , to be exact , when Fatty Coon found himself on the bank of the creek which flowed slowly into Swift River.
Fatty had been looking for frogs , but he had had no luck at all.
To tell the truth , Fatty was a little too young to catch frogs easily , even when he found one ; and he was a good deal too fat , for he was so plump that he was not very spry.
Now , Fatty was hiding behind some tall rushes , and his sharp little eyes were looking all about him , and his nose was twitching as he sniffed the air.
He wished he might find a frog.
But not one frog appeared.
Fatty began to think that some other coon must have visited the creek just before him and caught them all.
And then he forgot all about frogs.
Yes ! Frogs passed completely out of Fatty Coon 's mind.
For whom should he spy but Mrs.
Turtle ! He saw her little black head first , bobbing along through the water of the creek.
She was swimming toward the bank where Fatty was hidden.
And pretty soon she pulled herself out of the water and waddled a short distance along the sand at the edge of the creek.
Mrs.
Turtle stopped then ; and for a few minutes she was very busy about something.
First she dug a hole in the sand.
And Fatty wondered what she was looking for.
But he kept very quiet.
And after a time Mrs.
Turtle splashed into the creek again and paddled away.
But before she left she scooped sand into the hole she had dug.
Before she left the place she looked all around , as if to make sure that no one had seen her.
And as she waddled slowly to the water Fatty could see that she was smiling as if she was very well pleased about something.
She seemed to have a secret.
Fatty Coon had grown very curious , as he watched Mrs.
Turtle.
And just as soon as she was out of sight he came out from his hiding place in the tall reeds and trotted down to the edge of the creek.
He went straight to the spot where Mrs.
Turtle had dug the hole and filled it up again.
And Fatty was so eager to know what she had been doing that he began to dig in the very spot where Mrs.
Turtle had dug before him.
It took Fatty Coon only about six seconds to discover Mrs.
Turtle 's secret.
For he did not have to paw away much of the sand before he came upon -- what do you suppose ? Eggs ! Turtles ' eggs ! Twenty-seven round , white eggs , which Mrs.
Turtle had left there in the warm sand to hatch.
THAT was why she looked all around to make sure that no one saw her.
THAT was why she seemed so pleased.
For Mrs.
Turtle fully expected that after a time twenty-seven little turtles would hatch from those eggs -- just as chickens do -- and dig their way out of the sand.
But it never happened that way at all.
For as soon as he got over his surprise at seeing them , Fatty Coon began at once to eat those twenty - seven eggs.
They were delicious.
And as he finished the last one he could n't help thinking how lucky he had been"
There was once on a time a woman who was a real witch and had two daughters , one ugly and wicked , and this one she loved because she was her own daughter , and one beautiful and good , and this one she hated , because she was her step-daughter.
The step-daughter once had a pretty apron , which the other fancied so much that she became envious , and told her mother that she must and would have that apron.
`` Be quiet , my child ,"
said the old woman , `` and thou shalt have it.
Thy step-sister has long deserved death , to-night when she is asleep I will come and cut her head off.
Only be careful that thou art at the far-side of the bed , and push her well to the front"
It would have been all over with the poor girl if she had not just then been standing in a corner , and heard everything.
All day long she dared not go out of doors , and when bed-time had come , the witch 's daughter got into bed first , so as to lie at the far side , but when she was asleep , the other pushed her gently to the front , and took for herself the place at the back , close by the wall.
In the night , the old woman came creeping in , she held an axe in her right hand , and felt with her left to see if anyone was lying at the outside , and then she grasped the axe with both hands , and cut her own child 's head off.
When she had gone away , the girl got up and went to her sweetheart , who was called Roland , and knocked at his door.
When he came out , she said to him , `` Hear me , dearest Roland , we must fly in all haste ; my step-mother wanted to kill me , but has struck her own child.
When daylight comes , and she sees what she has done , we shall be lost"
`` But ,"
said Roland , `` I counsel thee first to take away her magic wand , or we can not escape if she pursues us"
The maiden fetched the magic wand , and she took the dead girl 's head and dropped three drops of blood on the ground , one in front of the bed , one in the kitchen , and one on the stairs.
Then she hurried away with her lover.
When the old witch got up next morning , she called her daughter , and wanted to give her the apron , but she did not come.
Then the witch cried , `` Where art thou ?"
`` Here , on the stairs , I am sweeping ,"
answered the first drop of blood.
The old woman went out , but saw no one on the stairs , and cried again , `` Where art thou ?"
`` Here in the kitchen , I am warming myself ,"
cried the second drop of blood.
She went into the kitchen , but found no one.
Then she cried again , `` Where art thou ?"
`` Ah , here in the bed , I am sleeping"
cried the third drop of blood.
She went into the room to the bed.
What did she see there ? Her own child , whose head she had cut off , bathed in her blood.
The witch fell into a passion , sprang to the window , and as she could look forth quite far into the world , she perceived her step-daughter hurrying away with her sweetheart Roland.
`` That shall not serve you ,"
cried she , `` even if you have got a long way off , you shall still not escape me"
She put on her many league boots , in which went an hour 's walk at every step , and it was not long before she overtook them.
The girl , however , when she saw the old woman striding towards her , changed , with her magic wand , her sweetheart Roland into a lake , and herself into a duck swimming in the middle of it.
The witch placed herself on the shore , threw bread-crumbs in , and gave herself every possible trouble to entice the duck ; but the duck did not let herself be enticed , and the old woman had to go home at night as she had come.
On this the girl and her sweetheart Roland resumed their natural shapes again , and they walked on the whole night until daybreak.
Then the maiden changed herself into a beautiful flower which stood in the midst of a briar hedge , and her sweetheart Roland into a fiddler.
It was not long before the witch came striding up towards them , and said to the musician , `` Dear musician , may I pluck that beautiful flower for myself ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
he replied , `` I will play to you while you do it"
As she was hastily creeping into the hedge and was just going to pluck the flower , for she well knew who the flower was , he began to play , and whether she would or not , she was forced to dance , for it was a magical dance.
The quicker he played , the more violent springs was she forced to make , and the thorns tore her clothes from her body , and pricked her and wounded her till she bled , and as he did not stop , she had to dance till she lay dead on the ground.
When they were delivered , Roland said , `` Now I will go to my father and arrange for the wedding"
`` Then in the meantime I will stay here and wait for thee ,"
said the girl , `` and that no one may recognize me , I will change myself into a red stone land-mark"
Then Roland went away , and the girl stood like a red land-mark in the field and waited for her beloved.
But when Roland got home , he fell into the snares of another , who prevailed on him so far that he forgot the maiden.
The poor girl remained there a long time , but at length , as he did not return at all , she was sad , and changed herself into a flower , and thought , `` Some one will surely come this way , and trample me down"
It befell , however , that a shepherd kept his sheep in the field , and saw the flower , and as it was so pretty , plucked it , took it with him , and laid it away in his chest.
From that time forth , strange things happened in the shepherd 's house.
When he arose in the morning , all the work was already done , the room was swept , the table and benches cleaned , the fire on the hearth was lighted , and the water was fetched , and at noon , when he came home , the table was laid , and a good dinner served.
He could not conceive how this came to pass , for he never saw a human being in his house , and no one could have concealed himself in it.
He was certainly pleased with this good attendance , but still at last he was so afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her advice.
The wise woman said , `` There is some enchantment behind it , listen very early some morning if anything is moving in the room , and if thou seest anything , let it be what it may , throw a white cloth over it , and then the magic will be stopped"
The shepherd did as she bade him , and next morning just as day dawned , he saw the chest open , and the flower come out.
Swiftly he sprang towards it , and threw a white cloth over it.
Instantly the transformation came to an end , and a beautiful girl stood before him , who owned to him that she had been the flower , and that up to this time she had attended to his housekeeping.
She told him her story , and as she pleased him he asked her if she would marry him , but she answered , `` No ,"
for she wanted to remain faithful to her sweetheart Roland , although he had deserted her , but she promised not to go away , but to keep house for the shepherd for the future.
And now the time drew near when Roland 's wedding was to be celebrated , and then , according to an old custom in the country , it was announced that all the girls were to be present at it , and sing in honor of the bridal pair.
When the faithful maiden heard of this , she grew so sad that she thought her heart would break , and she would not go thither , but the other girls came and took her.
When it came to her turn to sing , she stepped back , until at last she was the only one left , and then she could not refuse.
But when she began her song , and it reached Roland 's ears , he sprang up and cried , `` I know the voice , that is the true bride , I will have no other !"
Everything he had forgotten , and which had vanished from his mind , had suddenly come home again to his heart.
Then the faithful maiden held her wedding with her sweetheart Roland , and grief came to an end and joy began"
A poor man had twelve children and was forced to work night and day to give them even bread.
When therefore the thirteenth came into the world , he knew not what to do in his trouble , but ran out into the great highway , and resolved to ask the first person whom he met to be godfather.
The first to meet him was the good God who already knew what filled his heart , and said to him , `` Poor man , I pity thee.
I will hold thy child at its christening , and will take charge of it and make it happy on earth"
The man said , `` Who art thou ?"
`` I am God"
`` Then I do not desire to have thee for a godfather ,"
said the man ; `` thou givest to the rich , and leavest the poor to hunger"
Thus spoke the man , for he did not know how wisely God apportions riches and poverty.
He turned therefore away from the Lord , and went farther.
Then the Devil came to him and said , `` What seekest thou ? If thou wilt take me as a godfather for thy child , I will give him gold in plenty and all the joys of the world as well"
The man asked , `` Who art thou ?"
`` I am the Devil"
`` Then I do not desire to have thee for godfather ,"
said the man ; `` thou deceivest men and leadest them astray"
He went onwards , and then came person_0 striding up to him with withered legs , and said , `` Take me as godfather"
The man asked , `` Who art thou ?"
`` I am person_0 , and I make all equal"
Then said the man , `` Thou art the right one , thou takest the rich as well as the poor , without distinction ; thou shalt be godfather"
person_0 answered , `` I will make thy child rich and famous , for he who has me for a friend can lack nothing"
The man said , `` Next Sunday is the christening ; be there at the right time"
person_0 appeared as he had promised , and stood godfather quite in the usual way.
When the boy had grown up , his godfather one day appeared and bade him go with him.
He led him forth into a forest , and showed him a herb which grew there , and said , `` Now shalt thou receive thy godfather 's present.
I make thee a celebrated physician.
When thou art called to a patient , I will always appear to thee.
If I stand by the head of the sick man , thou mayst say with confidence that thou wilt make him well again , and if thou givest him of this herb he will recover ; but if I stand by the patient 's feet , he is mine , and thou must say that all remedies are in vain , and that no physician in the world could save him.
But beware of using the herb against my will , or it might fare ill with thee"
It was not long before the youth was the most famous physician in the whole world.
`` He had only to look at the patient and he knew his condition at once , and if he would recover , or must needs die"
So they said of him , and from far and wide people came to him , sent for him when they had any one ill , and gave him so much money that he soon became a rich man.
Now it so befell that the King became ill , and the physician was summoned , and was to say if recovery were possible.
But when he came to the bed , person_0 was standing by the feet of the sick man , and the herb did not grow which could save him.
`` If I could but cheat person_0 for once ,"
thought the physician , `` he is sure to take it ill if I do , but , as I am his godson , he will shut one eye ; I will risk it"
He therefore took up the sick man , and laid him the other way , so that now person_0 was standing by his head.
Then he gave the King some of the herb , and he recovered and grew healthy again.
But person_0 came to the physician , looking very black and angry , threatened him with his finger , and said , `` Thou hast overreached me ; this time I will pardon it , as thou art my godson ; but if thou venturest it again , it will cost thee thy neck , for I will take thee thyself away with me"
Soon afterwards the King 's daughter fell into a severe illness.
She was his only child , and he wept day and night , so that he began to lose the sight of his eyes , and he caused it to be made known that whosoever rescued her from death should be her husband and inherit the crown.
When the physician came to the sick girl 's bed , he saw person_0 by her feet.
He ought to have remembered the warning given by his godfather , but he was so infatuated by the great beauty of the King 's daughter , and the happiness of becoming her husband , that he flung all thought to the winds.
He did not see that person_0 was casting angry glances on him , that he was raising his hand in the air , and threatening him with his withered fist.
He raised up the sick girl , and placed her head where her feet had lain.
Then he gave her some of the herb , and instantly her cheeks flushed red , and life stirred afresh in her.
When person_0 saw that for a second time he was defrauded of his own property , he walked up to the physician with long strides , and said , `` All is over with thee , and now the lot falls on thee ,"
and seized him so firmly with his ice-cold hand , that he could not resist , and led him into a cave below the earth.
There he saw how thousands and thousands of candles were burning in countless rows , some large , others half-sized , others small.
Every instant some were extinguished , and others again burnt up , so that the flames seemed to leap hither and thither in perpetual change.
`` See ,"
said person_0 , `` these are the lights of men 's lives.
The large ones belong to children , the half-sized ones to married people in their prime , the little ones belong to old people ; but children and young folks likewise have often only a tiny candle"
`` Show me the light of my life ,"
said the physician , and he thought that it would be still very tall.
person_0 pointed to a little end which was just threatening to go out , and said , `` Behold , it is there"
`` Ah , dear godfather ,"
said the horrified physician , `` light a new one for me , do it for love of me , that I may enjoy my life , be King , and the husband of the King 's beautiful daughter"
`` I can not ,"
answered person_0 , `` one must go out before a new one is lighted"
`` Then place the old one on a new one , that will go on burning at once when the old one has come to an end ,"
pleaded the physician.
person_0 behaved as if he were going to fulfill his wish , and took hold of a tall new candle ; but as he desired to revenge himself , he purposely made a mistake in fixing it , and the little piece fell down and was extinguished.
Immediately the physician fell on the ground , and now he himself was in the hands of person_0"
There was once upon a time a person_0 who had no children.
Now this person_0 went and laid him down to rest at a place where four roads met , so that every one who passed had to step over him.
At last a Fakir came along , and he said to the person_0 , `` Man , why are you lying here ?"
He replied , `` Fakir , a thousand men have come and passed by ; you pass on too"
But the Fakir said , `` Who are you , man ?"
The person_0 replied , `` I am a person_0 , Fakir.
Of goods and gold I have no lack , but I have lived long and have no children.
So I have come here , and have laid me down at the cross-roads.
My sins and offences have been very many , so I have come and am lying here that men may pass over me , and perchance my sins may be forgiven me , and God may be merciful , and I may have a son"
The Fakir answered him , `` Oh person_0 ! If you have children , what will you give me ?"
`` Whatever you ask , Fakir ,"
answered the person_0.
The Fakir said , `` Of goods and gold I have no lack , but I will say a prayer for you , and you will have two sons ; one of those sons will be mine"
Then he took out two sweetmeats and handed them to the person_0 , and said , `` person_0 ! take these two sweetmeats and give them to your wives ; give them to the wives you love best"
The person_0 took the sweetmeats and put them in his bosom.
Then the Fakir said , `` person_0 ! in a year I will return , and of the two sons who will be born to you one is mine and one yours"
The person_0 said , `` Well , I agree"
Then the Fakir went on his way , and the person_0 came home and gave one sweetmeat to each of his two wives.
After some time two sons were born to the person_0.
Then what did the person_0 do but place those two sons in an underground room , which he had built in the earth.
Some time passed , and one day the Fakir appeared , and said , `` person_0 ! bring me that son of yours !"
What did the person_0 do but bring two slave-girls ' sons and present them to the Fakir.
While the Fakir was sitting there the person_0 's sons were sitting down below in their cellar eating their food.
Just then a hungry ant had carried away a grain of rice from their food , and was going along with it to her children.
Another stronger ant came up and attacked her in order to get this grain of rice.
The first ant said , `` O ant , why do you drag this away from me ? I have long been lame in my feet , and I have got just one grain , and am carrying it to my children.
The person_0 's sons are sitting in the cellar eating their food ; you go and fetch a grain from there ; why should you take mine from me ?"
On this the second ant let go and did not rob the first , but went off to where the person_0 's sons were eating their food.
On hearing this the Fakir said , `` person_0 ! these are not your sons ; go and bring those children who are eating their food in the cellar"
Then the person_0 went and brought his own sons.
The Fakir chose the eldest son and took him away , and set off with him on his journey , When he got home he told the person_0 's son to go out to gather fuel.
So the person_0 's son went out to gather cow-dung , and when he had collected some he brought it in.
Then the Fakir looked at the person_0 's son and put on a great pot , and said , `` Come round here , my pupil"
But the person_0 's son said , `` Master first , and pupil after"
The Fakir told him to come once , he told him twice , he told him three times , and each time the person_0 's son answered , `` Master first , and pupil after"
Then the Fakir made a dash at the person_0 's son , thinking to catch him and throw him into the caldron.
There were about a hundred gallons of oil in this caldron , and the fire was burning beneath it.
Then the person_0 's son , lifting the Fakir , gave him a jerk and threw him into the caldron , and he was burnt , and became roast meat.
He then saw a key of the Fakir 's lying there ; he took this key and opened the door of the Fakir 's house.
Now many men were locked up in this house ; two horses were standing there in a hut of the Fakir 's ; two greyhounds were tied up there ; two simurgs were imprisoned , and two tigers also stood there.
So the person_0 's son let all the creatures go , and took them out of the house , and they all returned thanks to God.
Next he let out all the men who were in prison.
He took away with him the two horses , and he took away the two tigers , and he took away the two hounds , and he took away the two simurgs , and with them he set out for another country.
As he went along the road he saw above him a bald man , grazing a herd of calves , and this bald man called out to him , `` Fellow ! can you fight at all ?"
The person_0 's son replied , `` When I was little I could fight a bit , and now , if any one wants to fight , I am not so unmanly as to turn my back.
Come , I will fight you"
The bald man said , `` If I throw you , you shall be my slave ; and if you throw me , I will be your slave"
So they got ready and began to fight , and the person_0 's son threw him.
On this the person_0 's son said , `` I will leave my beasts here , my simurgs , tigers , and dogs , and horses ; they will all stay here while I go to the city to see the sights.
I appoint the tiger as guard over my property.
And you are my slave , you , too , must stay here with my belongings"
So the person_0 's son started off to the city to see the sights , and arrived at a pool.
He saw that it was a pleasant pool , and thought he would stop and bathe there , and therewith he began to strip off his clothes.
Now the person_0 's daughter , who was sitting on the roof of the palace , saw his royal marks , and she said , `` This man is a king ; when I marry , I will marry him and no other"
So she said to her father , `` My father ; I wish to marry"
`` Good ,"
said her father.
Then the person_0 made a proclamation : `` Let all men , great and small , attend to-day in the hall of audience , for the person_0 's daughter will to - day take a husband"
All the men of the land assembled , and the traveller Prince also came , dressed in the Fakir 's clothes , saying to himself , `` I must see this ceremony to-day"
He went in and sat down.
The person_0 's daughter came out and sat in the balcony , and cast her glance round all the assembly.
She noticed that the traveller Prince was sitting in the assembly in Fakir 's attire.
The Princess said to her handmaiden , `` Take this dish of henna , go to that traveller dressed like a Fakir , and sprinkle scent on him from the dish"
The handmaiden obeyed the Princess 's order , went to him , and sprinkled the scent over him.
Then the people said , `` The slave-girl has made a mistake"
But she replied , `` The slave-girl has made no mistake , ` tis her mistress has made the mistake"
On this the person_0 married his daughter to the Fakir , who was really no Fakir , but a Prince.
What fate had decreed came to pass in that country , and they were married.
But the person_0 of that city became very sad in his heart , because when so many chiefs and nobles were sitting there his daughter had chosen none of them , but had chosen that Fakir ; but he kept these thoughts concealed in his heart.
One day the traveller Prince said , `` Let all the person_0 's sons-in-law come out with me to-day to hunt"
People said , `` What is this Fakir that he should go a-hunting ?"
However , they all set out for the hunt , and fixed their meeting-place at a certain pool.
The newly married Prince went to his tigers , and told his tigers and hounds to kill and bring in a great number of gazelles and hog-deer and markhor.
Instantly they killed and brought in a great number.
Then taking with him these spoils of the chase , the Prince came to the pool settled on as a meeting-place.
The other Princes , sons-in-law of the person_0 of that city , also assembled there ; but they had brought in no game , and the new Prince had brought a great deal.
Thence they returned home to the town , and went to the person_0 their father-in-law , to present their game.
Now that person_0 had no son.
Then the new Prince told him that in fact he , too , was a Prince.
At this the person_0 , his father-in-law , was greatly delighted and took him by the hand and embraced him.
He seated him by himself , saying , `` O Prince , I return thanks that you have come here and become my son-in-law ; I am very happy at this , and I make over my kingdom to you"
`` Good-day , Father Hollenthe"
`` Many thanks , Pif-paf-poltrie"
`` May I be allowed to have your daughter ?"
`` Oh , yes , if Mother Malcho -LRB- Milch-cow -RRB- , Brother High-and-Mighty , Sister K setraut , and fair Katrinelje are willing , you can have her"
`` Where is Mother Malcho , then ?"
`` She is in the cow-house , milking the cow"
`` Good-day , Mother Malcho"
`` Many thanks , Pif-paf-poltrie"
`` May I be allowed to have your daughter ?"
`` Oh , yes , if Father Hollenthe , Brother High-and-Mighty , Sister K setraut , and fair Katrinelje are willing , you can have her"
`` Where is Brother High-and-Mighty , then ?"
`` He is in the room chopping some wood"
`` Good-day , Brother High-and-Mighty"
`` Many thanks , Pif-paf-poltrie"
`` May I be allowed to have your sister ?"
`` Oh , yes , if Father Hollenthe , Mother Malcho , Sister K setraut , and fair Katrinelje are willing , you can have her"
`` Where is Sister K setraut , then ?"
`` She is in the garden cutting cabbages"
`` Good-day , sister K setraut"
`` Many thanks , Pif-paf-poltrie"
`` May I be allowed to have your sister ?"
`` Oh , yes , if Father Hollenthe , Mother Malcho , Brother High-and - Mighty , and fair Katrinelje are willing , you may have her"
`` Where is fair Katrinelje , then ?"
`` She is in the room counting out her farthings"
`` Good day , fair Katrinelje"
`` Many thanks , Pif-paf-poltrie"
`` Wilt thou be my bride ?"
`` Oh , yes , if Father Hollenthe , Mother Malcho , Brother High-and-Mighty , and Sister K setraut are willing , I am ready"
`` Fair Katrinelje , how much dowry do hast thou ?"
`` Fourteen farthings in ready money , three and a half groschen owing to me , half a pound of dried apples , a handful of fried bread , and a handful of spices.
And many other things are mine , Have I not a dowry fine ? `` Pif-paf-poltrie , what is thy trade ? Art thou a tailor ?"
`` Something better"
`` A shoemaker ?"
`` Something better"
`` A husbandman ?"
`` Something better"
`` A joiner ?"
`` Something better"
`` A smith ?"
`` Something better"
`` A miller ?"
`` Something better"
`` Perhaps a broom-maker ?"
`` Yes , that 's what I am , is it not a fine trade ?"
A very wealthy old man , imagining that he was on the point of death , sent for his sons and divided his property among them.
However , he did not die for several years afterwards ; and miserable years many of them were.
Besides the weariness of old age , the old fellow had to bear with much abuse and cruelty from his sons.
Wretched , selfish ingrates ! Previously they vied with one another in trying to please their father , hoping thus to receive more money , but now they had received their patrimony , they cared not how soon he left them -- nay , the sooner the better , because he was only a needless trouble and expense.
And they let the poor old man know what they felt.
One day he met a friend and related to him all his troubles.
The friend sympathised very much with him , and promised to think over the matter , and call in a little while and tell him what to do.
He did so ; in a few days he visited the old man and put down four bags full of stones and gravel before him.
`` Look here , friend ,"
said he.
`` Your sons will get to know of my coming here to-day , and will inquire about it.
You must pretend that I came to discharge a long-standing debt with you , and that you are several thousands of rupees richer than you thought you were.
Keep these bags in your own hands , and on no account let your sons get to them as long as you are alive.
You will soon find them change their conduct towards you.
Salaam.
I will come again soon to see how you are getting on"
When the young men got to hear of this further increase of wealth they began to be more attentive and pleasing to their father than ever before.
And thus they continued to the day of the old man 's demise , when the bags were greedily opened , and found to contain only stones and gravel !"
There was once a tailor , who was a quarrelsome fellow , and his wife , who was good , industrious , and pious , never could please him.
Whatever she did , he was not satisfied , but grumbled and scolded , and knocked her about and beat her.
As the authorities at last heard of it , they had him summoned , and put in prison in order to make him better.
He was kept for a while on bread and water , and then set free again.
He was forced , however , to promise not to beat his wife any more , but to live with her in peace , and share joy and sorrow with her , as married people ought to do.
All went on well for a time , but then he fell into his old ways , and was surly and quarrelsome.
And because he dared not beat her , he would seize her by the hair and tear it out.
The woman escaped from him , and sprang out into the yard , but he ran after her with his yard-measure and scissors , and chased her about , and threw the yard-measure and scissors at her , and whatever else came his way.
When he hit her he laughed , and when he missed her , he stormed and swore.
This went on so long that the neighbors came to the wife 's assistance.
The tailor was again summoned before the magistrates , and reminded of his promise.
`` Dear gentlemen ,"
said he , `` I have kept my word , I have not beaten her , but have shared joy and sorrow with her"
`` How can that be ,"
said the judge , `` when she continually brings such heavy complaints against you ?"
`` I have not beaten her , but just because she looked so strange I wanted to comb her hair with my hand ; she , however , got away from me , and left me quite spitefully.
Then I hurried after her , and in order to bring her back to her duty , I threw at her as a well-meant admonition whatever came readily to hand.
I have shared joy and sorrow with her also , for whenever I hit her I was full of joy , and she of sorrow , and if I missed her , then she was joyful , and I sorry"
The judges were not satisfied with this answer , but gave him the reward he deserved"
Pussy-cat sits by the fire -- how should she be fair ? In walks the little dog -- says `` Pussy are you there ? How do you do mistress Pussy ? Mistress Pussy , how do you do ?"
`` I thank you kindly , little dog , I fare as well as you !"
Old Rhyme.
ONCE upon a time there was a Pussy-cat called person_0 , who invited a little dog called Duchess to tea.
`` Come in good time , my dear Duchess ,"
said person_0 's letter , `` and we will have something so very nice.
I am baking it in a pie-dish -- a pie - dish with a pink rim.
You never tasted anything so good ! And YOU shall eat it all ! _ I _ will eat muffins , my dear Duchess !"
wrote person_0.
Duchess read the letter and wrote an answer : -- `` I will come with much pleasure at a quarter past four.
But it is very strange.
_ I _ was just going to invite you to come here , to supper , my dear person_0 , to eat something MOST DELICIOUS"
`` I will come very punctually , my dear person_0 ,"
wrote Duchess ; and then at the end she added -- `` I hope it is n't mouse ?"
And then she thought that did not look quite polite ; so she scratched out `` is n't mouse"
and changed it to `` I hope it will be fine ,"
and she gave her letter to the postman.
But she thought a great deal about person_0 's pie , and she read person_0 's letter over and over again.
`` I am dreadfully afraid it WILL be mouse !"
said Duchess to herself -- `` I really could n't , COULD N'T eat mouse pie.
And I shall have to eat it , because it is a party.
And MY pie was going to be veal and ham.
A pink and white pie-dish ! and so is mine ; just like person_0 's dishes ; they were both bought at Tabitha Twitchit 's"
Duchess went into her larder and took the pie off a shelf and looked at it"
IF these gay tales give pleasure to the FAIR , The honour 's great conferred , I 'm well aware ; Yet , why suppose the sex my pages shun ? Enough , if they condemn where follies run ; Laugh in their sleeve at tricks they disapprove , person_3 , false or true , a muscle never move.
A playful jest can scarcely give offence : Who knows too much , oft shows a want of sense.
From flatt ` ry oft more dire effects arise , Enflame the heart and take it by surprise ; Ye beauteous belles , beware each sighing swain , Discard his vows : -- my book with care retain ; Your safety then I 'll guarantee at ease.
-- person_1 why dismiss ? -- their wishes are to please : person_3 , truly , no necessity appears For solitude : -- consider well your years.
I HAVE , and feel convinced they do you wrong , Who think no virtue can to such belong ; White crows and phoenixes do not abound ; person_1 lucky lovers still are sometimes found ; person_3 though , as these famed birds , not quite so rare , The numbers are not great that favors share ; I own my works a diff ` rent sense express , person_1 these are tales : -- mere tales in easy dress.
To beauty 's wiles , in ev ` ry class , I 've bowed ; Fawned , flattered , sighed , e ` en constancy have vowed person_0 gained ? you ask -- but little I admit ; Howe'er we aim , too oft we fail to hit.
My latter days I 'll now devote with care , To guard the sex from ev ` ry latent snare.
Tales I 'll detail , and these relate at ease : Narrations clear and neat will always please ; Like me , to this attention criticks pay ; Then sleep , on either side , from night till day.
If awkward , vulgar phrase intervene , Or rhymes imperfect o ` er the page be seen , Condemn at will ; but stratagems and art , Pass , shut your eyes , who 'd heed the idle part ? Some mothers , husbands , may perhaps be led , To pull my locks for stories white or red ; So matters stand : a fine affair , no doubt , person_3 what I 've failed to do -- my book makes out.
THE FAIR my pages safely may pursue , person_3 this apology they 'll not refuse.
person_0 recompense can I presume to make ? A tale I 'll give , where female charms partake , person_3 prove resistless whatsoe'er assail : Blessed BEAUTY , NATURE ever should prevail.
HAD Fate decreed our YOUTH , at early morn , To view the angel features you adorn , The captivating pow ` rs AURORA bless , Or airy SPRING bedecked in beauteous dress , person_3 all the azure canopy on high Had vanished like a dream , once you were nigh.
person_3 when his eyes at length your charms beheld , His glowing breast with softest passion swelled ; Superior lustre beamed at ev ` ry view ; No pleasures pleased : his soul was fixed on you.
Crowns , jewels , palaces , appeared as naught.
'Twas solely beauteous woman now he sought.
A WOOD , from earliest years , his home had been , person_3 birds the only company he 'd seen , Whose notes harmonious often lulled his care , Beguiled his hours , and saved him from despair ; Delightful sounds ! from nightingale and dove Unknown their tongue , yet indicant of love.
THIS savage , solitary , rustick school , The father chose his infancy to rule.
The mother 's recent death induced the sire , To place the son where only beasts retire ; person_3 long the forest habitants alone Were all his youthful sight had ever known.
TWO reasons , good or bad , the father led To fly the world : -- all intercourse to dread Since fate had torn his lovely spouse from hence ; Misanthropy and fear o ` ercame each sense ; Of the world grown tired , he hated all around : -- Too oft in solitude is sorrow found.
His partner 's death produced distaste of life , person_3 made him fear to seek another wife.
A hermit 's gloomy , mossy cell he took , person_3 wished his child might thither solely look.
AMONG the poor his little wealth he threw , person_3 with his infant son alone withdrew ; The forest 's dreary wilds concealed his cell ; There person_2 -LRB- such his name -RRB- resolved to dwell.
BY holy motives led , and not chagrin , The hermit never spoke of what he 'd seen ; person_1 , from the youth 's discernment , strove to hide , person_0e'er regarded love , and much beside , The softer sex , with all their magick charms , That fill the feeling bosom with alarms.
As years advanced , the boy with care he taught ; person_0 suited best his age before him brought ; At five he showed him animals and flow ` rs , The birds of air , the beasts , their sev ` ral pow ` rs ; person_3 now and then of hell he gave a hint , Old Satan 's wrath , and what might awe imprint , How formed , and doomed to infamy below ; In childhood FEAR 's the lesson first we know ! THE years had passed away , when person_2 tried , In matters more profound his son to guide ; He spoke of Paradise and Heav ` n above ; person_1 not a word of woman , -- nor of LOVE.
Fifteen arrived , the sire with anxious care , Of NATURE 'S works declaimed , -- but not the FAIR : An age , when those , for solitude designed , Should be to scenes of seriousness confined , Nor joys of youth , nor soft ideas praised The flame soon spreads when Cupid 's torch is raised.
AT length , when twenty summers time had run , The father to the city brought his son ; With years weighed down , the hermit scarcely knew His daily course of duty to pursue ; person_3 when Death 's venomed shaft should on him fall ; On whom could then his boy for succor call ? How life support , unknowing and unknown ? Wolves , foxes , bears , ne'er charity have shown ; person_3 all the sire could give his darling care , A staff and wallet , he was well aware Fine patrimony , truly , for a child ! To which his mind was no way reconciled.
Bread few , 'twas clear , the hermit would deny , person_3 rich he might have been you may rely ; When he drew near , the children quickly cried Here 's father person_2 -- haste , the alms provide ; person_3 many pious men his friends were found , person_1 not one female devotee around : None would he hear ; the FAIR he always fled Their smiles and wiles the friar kept in dread.
OUR hermit , when he thought his darling youth ; Well fixed in duty and religious truth , Conveyed him ` mong his pious friends , to learn How food to beg , and other ways discern.
In tears he viewed his son the forest quit , person_3 fain would have him for the world unfit.
THE city 's palaces and lofty spires , Our rustick 's bosom filled with new desires.
The prince 's residence great splendor showed , person_3 lively pleasure on the youth bestowed.
person_0 's here ? said he ; The court , his friends replied : -- person_0 there ? -- The mansions where the great reside : -- person_3 these ? -- Fine statues , noble works of art : All gave delight and gratitude his heart.
person_1 when the beauteous FAIR first caught his view , To ev ` ry other sight he bade adieu ; The palace , court , or mansions he admired , No longer proved the objects he desired ; Another cause of admiration rose , His breast pervaded , and disturbed repose.
person_0 's this , he cried , so elegantly neat ? O tell me , father ; make my joy complete ! WHAT gave the son such exquisite delight , The parent filled with agonizing fright.
To answer , howsoe'er he 'd no excuse , So told the youth -- a bird they call a goose.
O BEAUTEOUS bird , exclaimed th ' enraptured boy , Sing , sound thy voice , ` twill fill my soul with joy ; To thee I 'd anxiously be better known ; O father , let me have one for my own ! A thousand times I fondly ask the boon ; Let 's take it to the woods : ` tis not too soon ; Young as it is , I 'll feed it morn and night , person_3 always make it my supreme delight"
There was one on a time a great war , and when it came to an end , many soldiers were discharged.
Then person_0 also received his dismissal , and besides that , nothing but a small loaf of contract-bread , and four kreuzers in money , with which he departed.
St.
Peter had , however , placed himself in his way in the shape of a poor beggar , and when person_0 came up , he begged alms of him.
person_0 replied , `` Dear beggar-man , what am I to give you ? I have been a soldier , and have received my dismissal , and have nothing but this little loaf of contract-bread , and four kreuzers of money ; when that is gone , I shall have to beg as well as you.
Still I will give you something"
Thereupon he divided the loaf into four parts , and gave the apostle one of them , and a kreuzer likewise.
St.
Peter thanked him , went onwards , and threw himself again in the soldier 's way as a beggar , but in another shape ; and when he came up begged a gift of him as before.
person_0 spoke as he had done before , and again gave him a quarter of the loaf and one kreuzer.
St.
Peter thanked him , and went onwards , but for the third time placed himself in another shape as a beggar on the road , and spoke to person_0.
person_0 gave him also the third quarter of bread and the third kreuzer.
St.
Peter thanked him , and person_0 went onwards , and had but a quarter of the loaf , and one kreuzer.
With that he went into an inn , ate the bread , and ordered one kreuzer 's worth of beer.
When he had had it , he journeyed onwards , and then St.
Peter , who had assumed the appearance of a discharged soldier , met and spoke to him thus : `` Good day , comrade , canst thou not give me a bit of bread , and a kreuzer to get a drink ?"
`` Where am I to procure it ?"
answered person_0 ; `` I have been discharged , and I got nothing but a loaf of ammunition-bread and four kreuzers in money.
I met three beggars on the road , and I gave each of them a quarter of my bread , and one kreuzer.
The last quarter I ate in the inn , and had a drink with the last kreuzer.
Now my pockets are empty , and if thou also hast nothing we can go a-begging together"
`` No ,"
answered St.
Peter , `` we need not quite do that.
I know a little about medicine , and I will soon earn as much as I require by that"
`` Indeed ,"
said person_0 , `` I know nothing of that , so I must go and beg alone"
`` Just come with me ,"
said St.
Peter , `` and if I earn anything , thou shalt have half of it"
`` All right ,"
said person_0 , so they went away together.
Then they came to a peasant 's house inside which they heard loud lamentations and cries ; so they went in , and there the husband was lying sick unto death , and very near his end , and his wife was crying and weeping quite loudly.
`` Stop that howling and crying ,"
said St.
Peter , `` I will make the man well again ,"
and he took a salve out of his pocket , and healed the sick man in a moment , so that he could get up , and was in perfect health.
In great delight the man and his wife said , `` How can we reward you ? What shall we give you ?"
But St.
Peter would take nothing , and the more the peasant folks offered him , the more he refused.
person_0 , however , nudged St.
Peter , and said , `` Take something ; sure enough we are in need of it"
At length the woman brought a lamb and said to St.
Peter that he really must take that , but he would not.
Then person_0 gave him a poke in the side , and said , `` Do take it , you stupid fool ; we are in great want of it !"
Then St.
Peter said at last , `` Well , I will take the lamb , but I wo n't carry it ; if thou wilt insist on having it , thou must carry it"
`` That is nothing ,"
said person_0.
`` I will easily carry it ,"
and took it on his shoulder.
Then they departed and came to a wood , but person_0 had begun to feel the lamb heavy , and he was hungry , so he said to St.
Peter , `` Look , that 's a good place , we might cook the lamb there , and eat it"
`` As you like ,"
answered St.
Peter , `` but I ca n't have anything to do with the cooking ; if thou wilt cook , there is a kettle for thee , and in the meantime I will walk about a little until it is ready.
Thou must , however , not begin to eat until I have come back , I will come at the right time"
`` Well , go , then ,"
said person_0 , `` I understand cookery , I will manage it"
Then St.
Peter went away , and person_0 killed the lamb , lighted a fire , threw the meat into the kettle , and boiled it.
The lamb was , however , quite ready , and the apostle Peter had not come back , so person_0 took it out of the kettle , cut it up , and found the heart.
`` That is said to be the best part ,"
said he , and tasted it , but at last he ate it all up.
At length St.
Peter returned and said , `` Thou mayst eat the whole of the lamb thyself , I will only have the heart , give me that"
Then person_0 took a knife and fork , and pretended to look anxiously about amongst the lamb 's flesh , but not to be able to find the heart , and at last he said abruptly , `` There is none here"
`` But where can it be ?"
said the apostle.
`` I do n't know ,"
replied person_0 , `` but look , what fools we both are , to seek for the lamb 's heart , and neither of us to remember that a lamb has no heart !"
`` Oh ,"
said St.
Peter , `` that is something quite new ! Every animal has a heart , why is a lamb to have none ?"
`` No , be assured , my brother ,"
said person_0 , `` that a lamb has no heart ; just consider it seriously , and then you will see that it really has none"
`` Well , it is all right ,"
said St.
Peter , `` if there is no heart , then I want none of the lamb ; thou mayst eat it alone"
`` What I ca n't eat now , I will carry away in my knapsack ,"
said person_0 , and he ate half the lamb , and put the rest in his knapsack.
They went farther , and then St.
Peter caused a great stream of water to flow right across their path , and they were obliged to pass through it.
Said St.
Peter , `` Do thou go first"
`` No ,"
answered person_0 , `` thou must go first ,"
and he thought , `` if the water is too deep I will stay behind"
Then St.
Peter strode through it , and the water just reached to his knee.
So person_0 began to go through also , but the water grew deeper and reached to his throat.
Then he cried , `` person_0 , help me !"
St.
Peter said , `` Then wilt thou confess that thou hast eaten the lamb 's heart ?"
`` No ,"
said he , `` I have not eaten it"
Then the water grew deeper still and rose to his mouth.
`` Help me , brother ,"
cried the soldier.
St.
Peter said , `` Then wilt thou confess that thou hast eaten the lamb 's heart ?"
`` No ,"
he replied , `` I have not eaten it"
St.
Peter , however , would not let him be drowned , but made the water sink and helped him through it.
Then they journeyed onwards , and came to a kingdom where they heard that the King 's daughter lay sick unto death.
`` Hollo , brother !"
said the soldier to St.
Peter , `` this is a chance for us ; if we can heal her we shall be provided for , for life !"
But St.
Peter was not half quick enough for him , `` Come , lift your legs , my dear brother ,"
said he , `` that we may get there in time"
But St.
Peter walked slower and slower , though person_0 did all he could to drive and push him on , and at last they heard that the princess was dead.
`` Now we are done for !"
said person_0 ; `` that comes of thy sleepy way of walking !"
`` Just be quiet ,"
answered St.
Peter , `` I can do more than cure sick people ; I can bring dead ones to life again"
`` Well , if thou canst do that ,"
said person_0 , `` it 's all right , but thou shouldst earn at least half the kingdom for us by that"
Then they went to the royal palace , where every one was in great grief , but St.
Peter told the King that he would restore his daughter to life.
He was taken to her , and said , `` Bring me a kettle and some water ,"
and when that was brought , he bade everyone go out , and allowed no one to remain with him but person_0.
Then he cut off all the dead girl 's limbs , and threw them in the water , lighted a fire beneath the kettle , and boiled them.
And when the flesh had fallen away from the bones , he took out the beautiful white bones , and laid them on a table , and arranged them together in their natural order.
When he had done that , he stepped forward and said three times , `` In the name of the holy Trinity , dead woman , arise"
And at the third time , the princess arose , living , healthy and beautiful.
Then the King was in the greatest joy , and said to St.
Peter , `` Ask for thy reward ; even if it were half my kingdom , I would give it thee"
But St.
Peter said , `` I want nothing for it"
`` Oh , thou tomfool !"
thought person_0 to himself , and nudged his comrade 's side , and said , `` Do n't be so stupid ! If thou hast no need of anything , I have"
St.
Peter , however , would have nothing , but as the King saw that the other would very much like to have something , he ordered his treasurer to fill person_0 's knapsack with gold.
Then they went on their way , and when they came to a forest , St.
Peter said to person_0 , `` Now , we will divide the gold"
`` Yes ,"
he replied , `` we will"
So St.
Peter divided the gold , and divided it into three heaps.
person_0 thought to himself , `` What craze has he got in his head now ? He is making three shares , and there are only two of us !"
But St.
Peter said , `` I have divided it exactly ; there is one share for me , one for thee , and one for him who ate the lamb 's heart"
`` Oh , I ate that !"
replied person_0 , and hastily swept up the gold.
`` You may trust what I say"
`` But how can that be true ,"
said St.
Peter , `` when a lamb has no heart ?"
`` Eh , what , brother , what can you be thinking of ? Lambs have hearts like other animals , why should only they have none ?"
`` Well , so be it ,"
said St.
Peter , `` keep the gold to yourself , but I will stay with you no longer ; I will go my way alone"
`` As you like , dear brother ,"
answered person_0.
`` Farewell"
Then St.
Peter went a different road , but person_0 thought , `` It is a good thing that he has taken himself off , he is certainly a strange saint , after all"
Then he had money enough , but did not know how to manage it , squandered it , gave it away , and and when some time had gone by , once more had nothing.
Then he arrived in a certain country where he heard that a King 's daughter was dead.
`` Oh , ho !"
thought he , `` that may be a good thing for me ; I will bring her to life again , and see that I am paid as I ought to be"
So he went to the King , and offered to raise the dead girl to life again.
Now the King had heard that a discharged soldier was traveling about and bringing dead persons to life again , and thought that person_0 was the man ; but as he had no confidence in him , he consulted his councillors first , who said that he might give it a trial as his daughter was dead.
Then person_0 ordered water to be brought to him in a kettle , bade every one go out , cut the limbs off , threw them in the water and lighted a fire beneath , just as he had seen St.
Peter do.
The water began to boil , the flesh fell off , and then he took the bones out and laid them on the table , but he did not know the order in which to lay them , and placed them all wrong and in confusion.
Then he stood before them and said , `` In the name of the most holy Trinity , dead maiden , I bid thee arise ,"
and he said this thrice , but the bones did not stir.
So he said it thrice more , but also in vain : `` Confounded girl that you are , get up !"
cried he , `` Get up , or it shall be worse for you !"
When he had said that , St.
Peter suddenly appeared in his former shape as a discharged soldier ; he entered by the window and said , `` Godless man , what art thou doing ? How can the dead maiden arise , when thou hast thrown about her bones in such confusion ?"
`` Dear brother , I have done everything to the best of my ability ,"
he answered.
`` This once , I will help thee out of thy difficulty , but one thing I tell thee , and that is that if ever thou undertakest anything of the kind again , it will be the worse for thee , and also that thou must neither demand nor accept the smallest thing from the King for this !"
Thereupon St.
Peter laid the bones in their right order , said to the maiden three times , `` In the name of the most holy Trinity , dead maiden , arise ,"
and the King 's daughter arose , healthy and beautiful as before.
Then St.
Peter went away again by the window , and person_0 was rejoiced to find that all had passed off so well , but was very much vexed to think that after all he was not to take anything for it.
`` I should just like to know ,"
thought he , `` what fancy that fellow has got in his head , for what he gives with one hand he takes away with the other there is no sense whatever in it !"
Then the King offered person_0 whatsoever he wished to have , but he did not dare to take anything ; however , by hints and cunning , he contrived to make the King order his knapsack to be filled with gold for him , and with that he departed.
When he got out , St.
Peter was standing by the door , and said , `` Just look what a man thou art ; did I not forbid thee to take anything , and there thou hast thy knapsack full of gold !"
`` How can I help that ,"
answered person_0 , `` if people will put it in for me ?"
`` Well , I tell thee this , that if ever thou settest about anything of this kind again thou shalt suffer for it !"
`` Eh , brother , have no fear , now I have money , why should I trouble myself with washing bones ?"
`` Faith ,"
said St.
Peter , `` the gold will last a long time ! In order that after this thou mayst never tread in forbidden paths , I will bestow on thy knapsack this property , namely , that whatsoever thou wishest to have inside it , shall be there.
Farewell , thou wilt now never see me more"
`` Good-bye ,"
said person_0 , and thought to himself , `` I am very glad that thou hast taken thyself off , thou strange fellow ; I shall certainly not follow thee"
But of the magical power which had been bestowed on his knapsack , he thought no more.
person_0 traveled about with his money , and squandered and wasted what he had as before.
When at last he had no more than four kreuzers , he passed by an inn and thought , `` The money must go ,"
and ordered three kreuzers ' worth of wine and one kreuzer 's worth of bread for himself.
As he was sitting there drinking , the smell of roast goose made its way to his nose.
person_0 looked about and peeped , and saw that the host had two geese standing in the oven.
Then he remembered that his comrade had said that whatsoever he wished to have in his knapsack should be there , so he said , `` Oh , ho ! I must try that with the geese"
So he went out , and when he was outside the door , he said , `` I wish those two roasted geese out of the oven and in my knapsack ,"
and when he had said that , he unbuckled it and looked in , and there they were inside it.
`` Ah , that 's right !"
said he , `` now I am a made man !"
and went away to a meadow and took out the roast meat.
When he was in the midst of his meal , two journeymen came up and looked at the second goose , which was not yet touched , with hungry eyes.
person_0 thought to himself , `` One is enough for me ,"
and called the two men up and said , `` Take the goose , and eat it to my health"
They thanked him , and went with it to the inn , ordered themselves a half bottle of wine and a loaf , took out the goose which had been given them , and began to eat.
The hostess saw them and said to her husband , `` Those two are eating a goose ; just look and see if it is not one of ours , out of the oven"
The landlord ran thither , and behold the oven was empty ! `` What !"
cried he , `` you thievish crew , you want to eat goose as cheap as that ? Pay for it this moment ; or I will wash you well with green hazel-sap"
The two said , `` We are no thieves , a discharged soldier gave us the goose , outside there in the meadow"
`` You shall not throw dust in my eyes that way ! the soldier was here but he went out by the door , like an honest fellow.
I looked after him myself ; you are the thieves and shall pay !"
But as they could not pay , he took a stick , and cudgeled them out of the house.
person_0 went his way and came to a place where there was a magnificent castle , and not far from it a wretched inn.
He went to the inn and asked for a night 's lodging , but the landlord turned him away , and said , `` There is no more room here , the house is full of noble guests"
`` It surprises me that they should come to you and not go to that splendid castle ,"
said person_0.
`` Ah , indeed ,"
replied the host , `` but it is no slight matter to sleep there for a night ; no one who has tried it so far , has ever come out of it alive"
`` If others have tried it ,"
said person_0 , `` I will try it too"
`` Leave it alone ,"
said the host , `` it will cost you your neck"
`` It wo n't kill me at once ,"
said person_0 , `` just give me the key , and some good food and wine"
So the host gave him the key , and food and wine , and with this person_0 went into the castle , enjoyed his supper , and at length , as he was sleepy , he lay down on the ground , for there was no bed.
He soon fell asleep , but during the night was disturbed by a great noise , and when he awoke , he saw nine ugly devils in the room , who had made a circle , and were dancing around him.
person_0 said , `` Well , dance as long as you like , but none of you must come too close"
But the devils pressed continually nearer to him , and almost stepped on his face with their hideous feet.
`` Stop , you devils ' ghosts ,"
said he , but they behaved still worse.
Then person_0 grew angry , and cried , `` Hola ! but I will soon make it quiet ,"
and got the leg of a chair and struck out into the midst of them with it.
But nine devils against one soldier were still too many , and when he struck those in front of him , the others seized him behind by the hair , and tore it unmercifully.
`` Devils ' crew ,"
cried he , `` it is getting too bad , but wait.
Into my knapsack , all nine of you !"
In an instant they were in it , and then he buckled it up and threw it into a corner.
After this all was suddenly quiet , and person_0 lay down again , and slept till it was bright day.
Then came the inn-keeper , and the nobleman to whom the castle belonged , to see how he had fared ; but when they perceived that he was merry and well they were astonished , and asked , `` Have the spirits done you no harm , then ?"
`` The reason why they have not ,"
answered person_0 , `` is because I have got the whole nine of them in my knapsack ! You may once more inhabit your castle quite tranquilly , none of them will ever haunt it again"
The nobleman thanked him , made him rich presents , and begged him to remain in his service , and he would provide for him as long as he lived.
`` No ,"
replied person_0 , `` I am used to wandering about , I will travel farther"
Then he went away , and entered into a smithy , laid the knapsack , which contained the nine devils on the anvil , and asked the smith and his apprentices to strike it.
So they smote with their great hammers with all their strength , and the devils uttered howls which were quite pitiable.
When he opened the knapsack after this , eight of them were dead , but one which had been lying in a fold of it , was still alive , slipped out , and went back again to hell.
Thereupon person_0 traveled a long time about the world , and those who know them can tell many a story about him , but at last he grew old , and thought of his end , so he went to a hermit who was known to be a pious man , and said to him , `` I am tired of wandering about , and want now to behave in such a manner that I shall enter into the kingdom of Heaven"
The hermit replied , `` There are two roads , one is broad and pleasant , and leads to hell , the other is narrow and rough , and leads to heaven"
`` I should be a fool ,"
thought person_0 , `` if I were to take the narrow , rough road"
So he set out and took the broad and pleasant road , and at length came to a great black door , which was the door of Hell.
person_0 knocked , and the door-keeper peeped out to see who was there.
But when he saw person_0 , he was terrified , for he was the very same ninth devil who had been shut up in the knapsack , and had escaped from it with a black eye.
So he pushed the bolt in again as quickly as he could , ran to the devil 's lieutenant , and said , `` There is a fellow outside with a knapsack , who wants to come in , but as you value your lives do n't allow him to enter , or he will wish the whole of hell into his knapsack.
He once gave me a frightful hammering when I was inside it"
So they called out to person_0 that he was to go away again , for he should not get in there ! `` If they wo n't have me here ,"
thought he , `` I will see if I can find a place for myself in heaven , for I must be somewhere"
So he turned about and went onwards until he came to the door of Heaven , where he knocked.
St.
Peter was sitting hard by as door-keeper.
person_0 recognized him at once , and thought , `` Here I find an old friend , I shall get on better"
But St.
Peter said , `` I really believe that thou wantest to come into Heaven"
`` Let me in , brother ; I must get in somewhere ; if they would have taken me into Hell , I should not have come here"
`` No ,"
said St.
Peter , `` thou shalt not enter"
`` Then if thou wilt not let me in , take thy knapsack back , for I will have nothing at all from thee"
`` Give it here , then ,"
said St.
Peter.
Then person_0 gave him the knapsack into Heaven through the bars , and St.
Peter took it , and hung it beside his seat.
Then said person_0 , `` And now I wish myself inside my knapsack ,"
and in a second he was in it , and in Heaven , and St.
Peter was forced to let him stay there"
Long , long ago in the province of Tango there lived on the shore of Japan in the little fishing village of Mizu-no-ye a young fisherman named person_2.
His father had been a fisherman before him , and his skill had more than doubly descended to his son , for person_2 was the most skillful fisher in all that country side , and could catch more Bonito and Tai in a day than his comrades could in a week.
But in the little fishing village , more than for being a clever fisher of the sea was he known for his kind heart.
In his whole life he had never hurt anything , either great or small , and when a boy , his companions had always laughed at him , for he would never join with them in teasing animals , but always tried to keep them from this cruel sport.
One soft summer twilight he was going home at the end of a day 's fishing when he came upon a group of children.
They were all screaming and talking at the tops of their voices , and seemed to be in a state of great excitement about something , and on his going up to them to see what was the matter he saw that they were tormenting a tortoise.
First one boy pulled it this way , then another boy pulled it that way , while a third child beat it with a stick , and the fourth hammered its shell with a stone.
Now person_2 felt very sorry for the poor tortoise and made up his mind to rescue it.
He spoke to the boys : `` Look here , boys , you are treating that poor tortoise so badly that it will soon die !"
The boys , who were all of an age when children seem to delight in being cruel to animals , took no notice of person_2 's gentle reproof , but went on teasing it as before.
One of the older boys answered : `` Who cares whether it lives or dies ? We do not.
Here , boys , go on , go on !"
And they began to treat the poor tortoise more cruelly than ever.
person_2 waited a moment , turning over in his mind what would be the best way to deal with the boys.
He would try to persuade them to give the tortoise up to him , so he smiled at them and said : `` I am sure you are all good , kind boys ! Now wo n't you give me the tortoise ? I should like to have it so much !"
`` No , we wo n't give you the tortoise ,"
said one of the boys.
`` Why should we ? We caught it ourselves"
`` What you say is true ,"
said person_2 , `` but I do not ask you to give it to me for nothing.
I will give you some money for it -- in other words , the Ojisan -LRB- Uncle -RRB- will buy it of you.
Wo n't that do for you , my boys ?"
He held up the money to them , strung on a piece of string through a hole in the center of each coin.
`` Look , boys , you can buy anything you like with this money.
You can do much more with this money than you can with that poor tortoise.
See what good boys you are to listen to me"
The boys were not bad boys at all , they were only mischievous , and as person_2 spoke they were won by his kind smile and gentle words and began `` to be of his spirit ,"
as they say in Japan.
Gradually they all came up to him , the ringleader of the little band holding out the tortoise to him.
`` Very well , Ojisan , we will give you the tortoise if you will give us the money !"
And person_2 took the tortoise and gave the money to the boys , who , calling to each other , scampered away and were soon out of sight.
Then person_2 stroked the tortoise 's back , saying as he did so : `` Oh , you poor thing ! Poor thing ! -- there , there ! you are safe now ! They say that a stork lives for a thousand years , but the tortoise for ten thousand years.
You have the longest life of any creature in this world , and you were in great danger of having that precious life cut short by those cruel boys.
Luckily I was passing by and saved you , and so life is still yours.
Now I am going to take you back to your home , the sea , at once.
Do not let yourself be caught again , for there might be no one to save you next time !"
All the time that the kind fisherman was speaking he was walking quickly to the shore and out upon the rocks ; then putting the tortoise into the water he watched the animal disappear , and turned homewards himself , for he was tired and the sun had set.
The next morning person_2 went out as usual in his boat.
The weather was fine and the sea and sky were both blue and soft in the tender haze of the summer morning.
person_2 got into his boat and dreamily pushed out to sea , throwing his line as he did so.
He soon passed the other fishing boats and left them behind him till they were lost to sight in the distance , and his boat drifted further and further out upon the blue waters.
Somehow , he knew not why , he felt unusually happy that morning ; and he could not help wishing that , like the tortoise he set free the day before , he had thousands of years to live instead of his own short span of human life.
He was suddenly startled from his reverie by hearing his own name called : `` person_2 , person_2 !"
Clear as a bell and soft as the summer wind the name floated over the sea.
He stood up and looked in every direction , thinking that one of the other boats had overtaken him , but gaze as he might over the wide expanse of water , near or far there was no sign of a boat , so the voice could not have come from any human being.
Startled , and wondering who or what it was that had called him so clearly , he looked in all directions round about him and saw that without his knowing it a tortoise had come to the side of the boat.
person_2 saw with surprise that it was the very tortoise he had rescued the day before.
`` Well , Mr.
Tortoise ,"
said person_2 , `` was it you who called my name just now ?"
The tortoise nodded its head several times and said : `` Yes , it was I.
Yesterday in your honorable shadow -LRB- o kage sama de -RRB- my life was saved , and I have come to offer you my thanks and to tell you how grateful I am for your kindness to me"
`` Indeed ,"
said person_2 , `` that is very polite of you.
Come up into the boat.
I would offer you a smoke , but as you are a tortoise doubtless you do not smoke ,"
and the fisherman laughed at the joke.
`` He-he-he-he !"
laughed the tortoise ; `` sake -LRB- rice wine -RRB- is my favorite refreshment , but I do not care for tobacco"
`` Indeed ,"
said person_2 , `` I regret very much that I have no `` sake"
in my boat to offer you , but come up and dry your back in the sun -- tortoises always love to do that"
So the tortoise climbed into the boat , the fisherman helping him , and after an exchange of complimentary speeches the tortoise said : `` Have you ever seen Rin Gin , the Palace of the Dragon person_1 of the person_4 , person_2 ?"
The fisherman shook his head and replied ; `` No ; year after year the sea has been my home , but though I have often heard of the Dragon person_1 's realm under the sea I have never yet set eyes on that wonderful place.
It must be very far away , if it exists at all !"
`` Is that really so ? You have never seen the person_4 's Palace ? Then you have missed seeing one of the most wonderful sights in the whole universe.
It is far away at the bottom of the sea , but if I take you there we shall soon reach the place.
If you would like to see the person_4 's land I will be your guide"
`` I should like to go there , certainly , and you are very kind to think of taking me , but you must remember that I am only a poor mortal and have not the power of swimming like a sea creature such as you are --"
Before the fisherman could say more the tortoise stopped him , saying : `` What ? You need not swim yourself.
If you will ride on my back I will take you without any trouble on your part"
`` But ,"
said person_2 , `` how is it possible for me to ride on your small back ?"
`` It may seem absurd to you.
but I assure you that you can do so.
Try at once ! Just come and get on my back , and see if it is as impossible as you think !"
As the tortoise finished speaking , person_2 looked at its shell , and strange to say be saw that the creature had suddenly grown so big that a man could easily sit on its back.
`` This is strange indeed !"
said person_2 ; `` then.
Mr.
Tortoise , with your kind permission I will get on your back.
Dokoisho !"
-LRB- Footnote : `` All right"
-LRB- only used by lower classes -RRB-.
-RRB- he exclaimed as he jumped on.
The tortoise , with an unmoved face , as if this strange proceeding were quite an ordinary event , said : `` Now we will set out at our leisure ,"
and with these words he leapt into the sea with person_2 on his back.
Down through the water the tortoise dived.
For a long time these two strange companions rode through the sea.
person_2 never grew tired , nor his clothes moist with the water.
At last , far away in the distance a magnificent gate appeared , and behind the gate , the long , sloping roofs of a palace on the horizon.
`` Ya"
exclaimed person_2.
`` that looks like the gate of some large palace just appearing ! Mr.
Tortoise , can you tell what that place is we can now see ?"
`` That is the great gate of the Rin Gin Palace , the large roof that you see behind the gate is the person_4 's Palace itself"
`` Then we have at last come to the realm of the person_4 and to his Palace ,"
said person_2.
`` Yes , indeed ,"
answered the tortoise , `` and do n't you think we have come very quickly ?"
And while he was speaking the tortoise reached the side of the gate.
`` And here we are , and you must please walk from here"
The tortoise now went in front , and speaking to the gatekeeper , said : `` This is person_2 , from the country of Japan.
I have had the honor of bringing him as a visitor to this kingdom.
Please show him the way"
Then the gatekeeper , who was a fish , at once led the way through the gate before them.
The red bream , the flounder , the sole , the cuttlefish , and all the chief vassals of the Dragon person_1 of the person_4 now came out with courtly bows to welcome the stranger.
`` person_2 Sama , person_2 Sama ! welcome to the person_4 Palace , the home of the Dragon person_1 of the person_4.
Thrice welcome are you , having come from such a distant country.
And you , Mr.
Tortoise , we are greatly indebted to you for all your trouble in bringing person_2 here"
Then , turning again to person_2 , they said , `` Please follow us this way ,"
and from here the whole band of fishes became his guides.
person_2 , being only a poor fisher lad , did not know how to behave in a palace ; but , strange though it was all to him , he did not feel ashamed or embarrassed , but followed his kind guides quite calmly where they led to the inner palace.
When he reached the portals a beautiful person_3 with her attendant maidens came out to welcome him.
She was more beautiful than any human being , and was robed in flowing garments of red and soft green like the under side of a wave , and golden threads glimmered through the folds of her gown.
Her lovely black hair streamed over her shoulders in the fashion of a king 's daughter many hundreds of years ago , and when she spoke her voice sounded like music over the water.
person_2 was lost in wonder while he looked upon her , and he could not speak.
Then he remembered that he ought to bow , but before he could make a low obeisance the person_3 took him by the hand and led him to a beautiful hall , and to the seat of honor at the upper end , and bade him be seated.
`` person_2 , it gives me the highest pleasure to welcome you to my father 's kingdom ,"
said the person_3.
`` Yesterday you set free a tortoise , and I have sent for you to thank you for saving my life , for I was that tortoise.
Now if you like you shall live here forever in the land of eternal youth , where summer never dies and where sorrow never comes , and I will be your bride if you will , and we will live together happily forever afterwards !"
And as person_2 listened to her sweet words and gazed upon her lovely face his heart was filled with a great wonder and joy , and he answered her , wondering if it was not all a dream : `` Thank you a thousand times for your kind speech.
There is nothing I could wish for more than to be permitted to stay here with you in this beautiful land , of which I have often heard , but have never seen to this day.
Beyond all words , this is the most wonderful place I have ever seen"
While he was speaking a train of fishes appeared , all dressed in ceremonial , trailing garments.
One by one , silently and with stately steps , they entered the hall , bearing on coral trays delicacies of fish and seaweed , such as no one can dream of , and this wondrous feast was set before the bride and bridegroom.
The bridal was celebrated with dazzling splendor , and in the person_4 's realm there was great rejoicing.
As soon as the young pair had pledged themselves in the wedding cup of wine , three times three , music was played , and songs were sung , and fishes with silver scales and golden tails stepped in from the waves and danced.
person_2 enjoyed himself with all his heart.
Never in his whole life had he sat down to such a marvelous feast.
When the feast was over the Princes asked the bridegroom if he would like to walk through the palace and see all there was to be seen.
Then the happy fisherman , following his bride , the person_4 's daughter , was shown all the wonders of that enchanted land where youth and joy go hand in hand and neither time nor age can touch them.
The palace was built of coral and adorned with pearls , and the beauties and wonders of the place were so great that the tongue fails to describe them.
But , to person_2 , more wonderful than the palace was the garden that surrounded it.
Here was to be seen at one time the scenery of the four different seasons ; the beauties of summer and winter , spring and autumn , were displayed to the wondering visitor at once.
First , when he looked to the east , the plum and cherry trees were seen in full bloom , the nightingales sang in the pink avenues , and butterflies flitted from flower to flower.
Looking to the south all the trees were green in the fullness of summer , and the day cicala and the night cricket chirruped loudly.
Looking to the west the autumn maples were ablaze like a sunset sky , and the chrysanthemums were in perfection.
Looking to the north the change made person_2 start , for the ground was silver white with snow , and trees and bamboos were also covered with snow and the pond was thick with ice.
And each day there were new joys and new wonders for person_2 , and so great was his happiness that he forgot everything , even the home he had left behind and his parents and his own country , and three days passed without his even thinking of all he had left behind.
Then his mind came back to him and he remembered who he was , and that he did not belong to this wonderful land or the person_4 's palace , and he said to himself : `` O dear ! I must not stay on here , for I have an old father and mother at home.
What can have happened to them all this time ? How anxious they must have been these days when I did not return as usual.
I must go back at once without letting one more day pass"
And he began to prepare for the journey in great haste.
Then he went to his beautiful wife , the person_3 , and bowing low before her he said : `` Indeed , I have been very happy with you for a long time , Otohime Sama"
-LRB- for that was her name -RRB- , `` and you have been kinder to me than any words can tell.
But now I must say good-by.
I must go back to my old parents"
Then Otohime Sama began to weep , and said softly and sadly : `` Is it not well with you here , person_2 , that you wish to leave me so soon ? Where is the haste ? Stay with me yet another day only !"
But person_2 had remembered his old parents , and in Japan the duty to parents is stronger than everything else , stronger even than pleasure or love , and he would not be persuaded , but answered : `` Indeed , I must go.
Do not think that I wish to leave you.
It is not that.
I must go and see my old parents.
Let me go for one day and I will come back to you"
`` Then ,"
said the person_3 sorrowfully , `` there is nothing to be done.
I will send you back to-day to your father and mother , and instead of trying to keep you with me one more day , I shall give you this as a token of our love -- please take it back with you ;"
and she brought him a beautiful lacquer box tied about with a silken cord and tassels of red silk.
person_2 had received so much from the person_3 already that he felt some compunction in taking the gift , and said : `` It does not seem right for me to take yet another gift from you after all the many favors I have received at your hands , but because it is your wish I will do so ,"
and then he added : `` Tell me what is this box ?"
`` That ,"
answered the person_3 `` is the tamate-bako -LRB- Box of the Jewel Hand -RRB- , and it contains something very precious.
You must not open this box , whatever happens ! If you open it something dreadful will happen to you ! Now promise me that you will never open this box !"
And person_2 promised that he would never , never open the box whatever happened.
Then bidding good-by to Otohime Sama he went down to the seashore , the person_3 and her attendants following him , and there he found a large tortoise waiting for him.
He quickly mounted the creature 's back and was carried away over the shining sea into the East.
He looked back to wave his hand to Otohime Sama till at last he could see her no more , and the land of the person_4 and the roofs of the wonderful palace were lost in the far , far distance.
Then , with his face turned eagerly towards his own land , he looked for the rising of the blue hills on the horizon before him.
At last the tortoise carried him into the bay he knew so well , and to the shore from whence he had set out.
He stepped on to the shore and looked about him while the tortoise rode away back to the person_4 's realm.
But what is the strange fear that seizes person_2 as he stands and looks about him ? Why does he gaze so fixedly at the people that pass him by , and why do they in turn stand and look at him ? The shore is the same and the hills are the same , but the people that he sees walking past him have very different faces to those he had known so well before.
Wondering what it can mean he walks quickly towards his old home.
Even that looks different , but a house stands on the spot , and he calls out : `` Father , I have just returned !"
and he was about to enter , when he saw a strange man coming out.
`` Perhaps my parents have moved while I have been away , and have gone somewhere else ,"
was the fisherman 's thought.
Somehow he began to feel strangely anxious , he could not tell why.
`` Excuse me ,"
said he to the man who was staring at him , `` but till within the last few days I have lived in this house.
My name is person_2.
Where have my parents gone whom I left here ?"
A very bewildered expression came over the face of the man , and , still gazing intently on person_2 's face , he said : `` What ? Are you person_2 ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the fisherman , `` I am person_2 !"
`` Ha , ha !"
laughed the man , `` you must not make such jokes.
It is true that once upon a time a man called person_2 did live in this village , but that is a story three hundred years old.
He could not possibly be alive now !"
When person_2 heard these strange words he was frightened , and said : `` Please , please , you must not joke with me , I am greatly perplexed.
I am really person_2 , and I certainly have not lived three hundred years.
Till four or five days ago I lived on this spot.
Tell me what I want to know without more joking , please"
But the man 's face grew more and more grave , and he answered : `` You may or may not be person_2 , I do n't know.
But the person_2 of whom I have heard is a man who lived three hundred years ago.
Perhaps you are his spirit come to revisit your old home ?"
`` Why do you mock me ?"
said person_2.
`` I am no spirit ! I am a living man -- do you not see my feet ;"
and `` don-don ,"
he stamped on the ground , first with one foot and then with the other to show the man.
-LRB- Japanese ghosts have no feet.
-RRB- `` But person_2 lived three hundred years ago , that is all I know ; it is written in the village chronicles , `` persisted the man , who could not believe what the fisherman said.
person_2 was lost in bewilderment and trouble.
He stood looking all around him , terribly puzzled , and , indeed , something in the appearance of everything was different to what he remembered before he went away , and the awful feeling came over him that what the man said was perhaps true.
He seemed to be in a strange dream.
The few days he had spent in the person_4 's palace beyond the sea had not been days at all : they had been hundreds of years , and in that time his parents had died and all the people he had ever known , and the village had written down his story.
There was no use in staying here any longer.
He must get back to his beautiful wife beyond the sea.
He made his way back to the beach , carrying in his hand the box which the person_3 had given him.
But which was the way ? He could not find it alone ! Suddenly he remembered the box , the tamate-bako.
`` The person_3 told me when she gave me the box never to open it -- that it contained a very precious thing.
But now that I have no home , now that I have lost everything that was dear to me here , and my heart grows thin with sadness , at such a time , if I open the box , surely I shall find something that will help me , something that will show me the way back to my beautiful person_3 over the sea.
There is nothing else for me to do now.
Yes , yes , I will open the box and look in !"
And so his heart consented to this act of disobedience , and he tried to persuade himself that he was doing the right thing in breaking his promise.
Slowly , very slowly , he untied the red silk cord , slowly and wonderingly he lifted the lid of the precious box.
And what did he find ? Strange to say only a beautiful little purple cloud rose out of the box in three soft wisps.
For an instant it covered his face and wavered over him as if loath to go , and then it floated away like vapor over the sea.
person_2 , who had been till that moment like a strong and handsome youth of twenty-four , suddenly became very , very old.
His back doubled up with age , his hair turned snowy white , his face wrinkled and he fell down dead on the beach.
Poor person_2 ! because of his disobedience he could never return to the person_4 's realm or the lovely person_3 beyond the sea.
Little children , never be disobedient to those who are wiser than you for disobedience was the beginning of all the miseries and sorrows of life"
There was once a young huntsman who went into the forest to lie in wait.
He had a fresh and joyous heart , and as he was going thither , whistling upon a leaf , an ugly old crone came up , who spoke to him and said , `` Good-day , dear huntsman , truly you are merry and contented , but I am suffering from hunger and thirst , do give me an alms"
The huntsman had compassion on the poor old creature , felt in his pocket , and gave her what he could afford.
He was then about to go further , but the old woman stopped him and said , `` Listen , dear huntsman , to what I tell you ; I will make you a present in return for your kindness.
Go on your way now , but in a little while you will come to a tree , whereon nine birds are sitting which have a cloak in their claws , and are plucking at it ; take your gun and shoot into the midst of them , they will let the cloak fall down to you , but one of the birds will be hurt , and will drop down dead.
Carry away the cloak , it is a wishing-cloak ; when you throw it over your shoulders , you only have to wish to be in a certain place , and you will be there in the twinkling of an eye.
Take out the heart of the dead bird and swallow it whole , and every morning early , when you get up , you will find a gold piece under your pillow"
The huntsman thanked the wise woman , and thought to himself , `` Those are fine things that she has promised me , if all does but come true"
And verily when he had walked about a hundred paces , he heard in the branches above him such a screaming and twittering that he looked up and saw there a crowd of birds who were tearing a piece of cloth about with their beaks and claws , and tugging and fighting as if each wanted to have it all to himself.
`` Well ,"
said the huntsman , `` this is wonderful , it has really come to pass just as the old wife foretold !"
and he took the gun from his shoulder , aimed and fired right into the midst of them , so that the feathers flew about.
The birds instantly took to flight with loud outcries , but one dropped down dead , and the cloak fell at the same time.
Then the huntsman did as the old woman had directed him , cut open the bird , sought the heart , swallowed it down , and took the cloak home with him.
Next morning , when he awoke , the promise occurred to him , and he wished to see if it also had been fulfilled.
When he lifted up the pillow , the gold piece shone in his eyes , and next day he found another , and so it went on , every time he got up.
He gathered together a heap of gold , but at last he thought , `` Of what use is all my gold to me if I stay at home ? I will go forth and see the world"
He then took leave of his parents , buckled on his huntsman 's pouch and gun , and went out into the world.
It came to pass , that one day he traveled through a dense forest , and when he came to the end of it , in the plain before him stood a fine castle.
An old woman was standing with a wonderfully beautiful maiden , looking out of one of the windows.
The old woman , however , was a witch and said to the maiden , `` There comes one out of the forest , who has a wonderful treasure in his body , we must filch it from him , my dear daughter , it is more suitable for us than for him.
He has a bird 's heart about him , by means of which a gold piece lies every morning under his pillow"
She told her what she was to do to get it , and what part she had to play , and finally threatened her , and said with angry eyes , `` And if you do not attend to what I say , it will be the worse for you"
Now when the huntsman came nearer he descried the maiden , and said to himself , `` I have traveled about for such a long time , I will take a rest for once , and enter that beautiful castle.
I have certainly money enough"
Nevertheless , the real reason was that he had caught sight of the pretty girl.
He entered the house , and was well received and courteously entertained.
Before long he was so much in love with the young witch that he no longer thought of anything else , and only saw things as she saw them , and did what she desired.
The old woman then said , `` Now we must have the bird 's heart , he will never miss it"
She prepared a drink , and when it was ready , poured it into a cup and gave it to the maiden , who was to present it to the huntsman.
She did so , saying , `` Now , my dearest , drink to me"
So he took the cup , and when he had swallowed the draught , he brought up the heart of the bird.
The girl had to take it away secretly and swallow it herself , for the old woman would have it so.
Thenceforward he found no more gold under his pillow , but it lay instead under that of the maiden , from whence the old woman fetched it away every morning ; but he was so much in love and so befooled , that he thought of nothing else but of passing his time with the girl.
Then the old witch said , `` We have the bird 's heart , but we must also take the wishing-cloak away from him"
The girl answered , `` We will leave him that , he has lost his wealth"
The old woman was angry and said , `` Such a mantle is a wonderful thing , and is seldom to be found in this world.
I must and will have it !"
She gave the girl several blows , and said that if she did not obey , it should fare ill with her.
So she did the old woman 's bidding , placed herself at the window and looked on the distant country , as if she were very sorrowful.
The huntsman asked , `` Why dost thou stand there so sorrowfully ?"
`` Ah , my beloved ,"
was her answer , `` over yonder lies the Garnet Mountain , where the precious stones grow.
I long for them so much that when I think of them , I feel quite sad , but who can get them ? Only the birds ; they fly and can reach them , but a man never"
`` Hast thou nothing else to complain of ?"
said the huntsman.
`` I will soon remove that burden from thy heart"
With that he drew her under his mantle , wished himself on the Garnet Mountain , and in the twinkling of an eye they were sitting on it together.
Precious stones were glistening on every side so that it was a joy to see them , and together they gathered the finest and costliest of them.
Now , the old woman had , through her sorceries , contrived that the eyes of the huntsman should become heavy.
He said to the maiden , `` We will sit down and rest awhile , I am so tired that I can no longer stand on my feet"
Then they sat down , and he laid his head in her lap , and fell asleep.
When he was asleep , she unfastened the mantle from his shoulders , and wrapped herself in it , picked up the garnets and stones , and wished herself back at home with them.
But when the huntsman had had his sleep out and awoke , and perceived that his sweetheart had betrayed him , and left him alone on the wild mountain , he said , `` Oh , what treachery there is in the world !"
and sat down there in care and sorrow , not knowing what to do.
But the mountain belonged to some wild and monstrous giants who dwelt thereon and lived their lives there , and he had not sat long before he saw three of them coming towards him , so he lay down as if he were sunk in a deep sleep.
Then the giants came up , and the first kicked him with his foot and said , `` What sort of an earth-worm is lying curled up here ?"
The second said , `` Step upon him and kill him"
But the third said , `` That would indeed be worth your while ; just let him live , he can not remain here ; and when he climbs higher , toward the summit of of the mountain , the clouds will lay hold of him and bear him away"
So saying they passed by.
But the huntsman had paid heed to their words , and as soon as they were gone , he rose and climbed up to the summit of the mountain , and when he had sat there a while , a cloud floated towards him , caught him up , carried him away , and traveled about for a long time in the heavens.
Then it sank lower , and let itself down on a great cabbage-garden , girt round by walls , so that he came softly to the ground on cabbages and vegetables.
Then the huntsman looked about him and said , `` If I had but something to eat ! I am so hungry , and my hunger will increase in course of time ; but I see here neither apples nor pears , nor any other sort of fruit , everywhere nothing but cabbages ,"
but at length he thought , `` At a pinch I can eat some of the leaves , they do not taste particularly good , but they will refresh me"
With that he picked himself out a fine head of cabbage , and ate it , but scarcely had he swallowed a couple of mouthfuls than he felt very strange and quite different.
Four legs grew on him , a large head and two thick ears , and he saw with horror that he was changed into an ass.
Still as his hunger increased every minute , and as the juicy leaves were suitable to his present nature , he went on eating with great zest.
At last he arrived at a different kind of cabbage , but as soon as he had swallowed it , he again felt a change , and reassumed his former human shape.
Then the huntsman lay down and slept off his fatigue.
When he awoke next morning , he broke off one head of the bad cabbages and another of the good ones , and thought to himself , `` This shall help me to get my own again and punish treachery"
Then he took the cabbages with him , climbed over the wall , and went forth to seek for the castle of his sweetheart.
After wandering about for a couple of days he was lucky enough to find it again.
He dyed his face brown , so that his own mother would not have known him ; and begged for shelter : `` I am so tired ,"
said he , `` that I can go no further"
The witch asked , `` Who are you , countryman , and what is your business ?"
`` I am a King 's messenger , and was sent out to seek the most delicious salad which grows beneath the sun.
I have even been so fortunate as to find it , and am carrying it about with me ; but the heat of the sun is so intense that the delicate cabbage threatens to wither , and I do not know if I can carry it any further"
When the old woman heard of the exquisite salad , she was greedy , and said , `` Dear countryman , let me just taste this wonderful salad"
`` Why not ?"
answered he , `` I have brought two heads with me , and will give you one of them ,"
and he opened his pouch and handed her the bad cabbage.
The witch suspected nothing amiss , and her mouth watered so for this new dish that she herself went into the kitchen and dressed it.
When it was prepared she could not wait until it was set on the table , but took a couple of leaves at once , and put them in her mouth , but hardly had she swallowed them than she was deprived of her human shape , and she ran out into the courtyard in the form of an ass.
Presently the maid-servant entered the kitchen , saw the salad standing there ready prepared , and was about to carry it up ; but on the way , according to habit , she was seized by the desire to taste , and she ate a couple of leaves.
Instantly the magic power showed itself , and she likewise became an ass and ran out to the old woman , and the dish of salad fell to the ground.
Meantime the messenger sat beside the beautiful girl , and as no one came with the salad and she also was longing for it , she said , `` I do n't know what has become of the salad"
The huntsman thought , `` The salad must have already taken effect ,"
and said , `` I will go to the kitchen and inquire about it"
As he went down he saw the two asses running about in the courtyard ; the salad , however , was lying on the ground.
`` All right ,"
said he , `` the two have taken their portion ,"
and he picked up the other leaves , laid them on the dish , and carried them to the maiden.
`` I bring you the delicate food myself ,"
said he , `` in order that you may not have to wait longer"
Then she ate of it , and was , like the others , immediately deprived of her human form , and ran out into the courtyard in the shape of an ass.
After the huntsman had washed his face , so that the transformed ones could recognize him , he went down into the courtyard , and said , `` Now you shall receive the wages of your treachery ,"
and bound them together , all three with one rope , and drove them along until he came to a mill.
He knocked at the window , the miller put out his head , and asked what he wanted.
`` I have three unmanageable beasts ,"
answered he , `` which I do n't want to keep any longer.
Will you take them in , and give them food and stable room , and manage them as I tell you , and then I will pay you what you ask"
The miller said , `` Why not ? But how am I to manage them ?"
The huntsman then said that he was to give three beatings and one meal daily to the old donkey , and that was the witch ; one beating and three meals to the younger one , which was the servant-girl ; and to the youngest , which was the maiden , no beatings and three meals , for he could not bring himself to have the maiden beaten.
After that he went back into the castle , and found therein everything he needed.
After a couple of days , the miller came and said he must inform him that the old ass which had received three beatings and only one meal daily was dead ; `` the two others ,"
he continued , `` are certainly not dead , and are fed three times daily , but they are so sad that they can not last much longer"
The huntsman was moved to pity , put away his anger , and told the miller to drive them back again to him.
And when they came , he gave them some of the good salad , so that they became human again.
The beautiful girl fell on her knees before him , and said , `` Ah , my beloved , forgive me for the evil I have done you ; my mother drove me to it ; it was done against my will , for I love you dearly.
Your wishing-cloak hangs in a cupboard , and as for the bird 's - heart I will take a vomiting potion"
But he thought otherwise , and said , `` Keep it ; it is all the same , for I will take thee for my true wife"
So the wedding was celebrated , and they lived happily together until their death"
Hard by a great forest dwelt a poor wood-cutter with his wife and his two children.
The boy was called Hansel and the girl Grethel.
He had little to bite and to break , and once when great scarcity fell on the land , he could no longer procure daily bread.
Now when he thought over this by night in his bed , and tossed about in his anxiety , he groaned and said to his wife , `` What is to become of us ? How are we to feed our poor children , when we no longer have anything even for ourselves ?"
`` I 'll tell you what , husband ,"
answered the woman , `` Early to-morrow morning we will take the children out into the forest to where it is the thickest , there we will light a fire for them , and give each of them one piece of bread more , and then we will go to our work and leave them alone.
They will not find the way home again , and we shall be rid of them"
`` No , wife ,"
said the man , `` I will not do that ; how can I bear to leave my children alone in the forest ? -- the wild animals would soon come and tear them to pieces"
`` O , thou fool !"
said she , `` Then we must all four die of hunger , thou mayest as well plane the planks for our coffins ,"
and she left him no peace until he consented.
`` But I feel very sorry for the poor children , all the same ,"
said the man.
The two children had also not been able to sleep for hunger , and had heard what their step-mother had said to their father.
Grethel wept bitter tears , and said to Hansel , `` Now all is over with us"
`` Be quiet , Grethel ,"
said Hansel , `` do not distress thyself , I will soon find a way to help us"
And when the old folks had fallen asleep , he got up , put on his little coat , opened the door below , and crept outside.
The moon shone brightly , and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house glittered like real silver pennies.
Hansel stooped and put as many of them in the little pocket of his coat as he could possibly get in.
Then he went back and said to Grethel , `` Be comforted , dear little sister , and sleep in peace , God will not forsake us ,"
and he lay down again in his bed.
When day dawned , but before the sun had risen , the woman came and awoke the two children , saying `` Get up , you sluggards ! we are going into the forest to fetch wood"
She gave each a little piece of bread , and said , `` There is something for your dinner , but do not eat it up before then , for you will get nothing else"
Grethel took the bread under her apron , as Hansel had the stones in his pocket.
Then they all set out together on the way to the forest.
When they had walked a short time , Hansel stood still and peeped back at the house , and did so again and again.
His father said , `` Hansel , what art thou looking at there and staying behind for ? Mind what thou art about , and do not forget how to use thy legs"
`` Ah , father ,"
said Hansel , `` I am looking at my little white cat , which is sitting up on the roof , and wants to say good-bye to me"
The wife said , `` Fool , that is not thy little cat , that is the morning sun which is shining on the chimneys"
Hansel , however , had not been looking back at the cat , but had been constantly throwing one of the white pebble-stones out of his pocket on the road.
When they had reached the middle of the forest , the father said , `` Now , children , pile up some wood , and I will light a fire that you may not be cold"
Hansel and Grethel gathered brushwood together , as high as a little hill.
The brushwood was lighted , and when the flames were burning very high , the woman said , `` Now , children , lay yourselves down by the fire and rest , we will go into the forest and cut some wood.
When we have done , we will come back and fetch you away"
Hansel and Grethel sat by the fire , and when noon came , each ate a little piece of bread , and as they heard the strokes of the wood-axe they believed that their father was near.
It was not , however , the axe , it was a branch which he had fastened to a withered tree which the wind was blowing backwards and forwards.
And as they had been sitting such a long time , their eyes shut with fatigue , and they fell fast asleep.
When at last they awoke , it was already dark night.
Grethel began to cry and said , `` How are we to get out of the forest now ?"
But Hansel comforted her and said , `` Just wait a little , until the moon has risen , and then we will soon find the way"
And when the full moon had risen , Hansel took his little sister by the hand , and followed the pebbles which shone like newly-coined silver pieces , and showed them the way.
They walked the whole night long , and by break of day came once more to their father 's house.
They knocked at the door , and when the woman opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Grethel , she said , `` You naughty children , why have you slept so long in the forest ? -- we thought you were never coming back at all !"
The father , however , rejoiced , for it had cut him to the heart to leave them behind alone.
Not long afterwards , there was once more great scarcity in all parts , and the children heard their mother saying at night to their father , `` Everything is eaten again , we have one half loaf left , and after that there is an end.
The children must go , we will take them farther into the wood , so that they will not find their way out again ; there is no other means of saving ourselves !"
The man 's heart was heavy , and he thought `` it would be better for thee to share the last mouthful with thy children"
The woman , however , would listen to nothing that he had to say , but scolded and reproached him.
He who says A must say B , likewise , and as he had yielded the first time , he had to do so a second time also.
The children were , however , still awake and had heard the conversation.
When the old folks were asleep , Hansel again got up , and wanted to go out and pick up pebbles as he had done before , but the woman had locked the door , and Hansel could not get out.
Nevertheless he comforted his little sister , and said , `` Do not cry , Grethel , go to sleep quietly , the good God will help us"
Early in the morning came the woman , and took the children out of their beds.
Their bit of bread was given to them , but it was still smaller than the time before.
On the way into the forest Hansel crumbled his in his pocket , and often stood still and threw a morsel on the ground.
`` Hansel , why dost thou stop and look round ?"
said the father , `` go on"
`` I am looking back at my little pigeon which is sitting on the roof , and wants to say good-bye to me ,"
answered Hansel.
`` Simpleton !"
said the woman , `` that is not thy little pigeon , that is the morning sun that is shining on the chimney"
Hansel , however , little by little , threw all the crumbs on the path.
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest , where they had never in their lives been before.
Then a great fire was again made , and the mother said , `` Just sit there , you children , and when you are tired you may sleep a little ; we are going into the forest to cut wood , and in the evening when we are done , we will come and fetch you away"
When it was noon , Grethel shared her piece of bread with Hansel , who had scattered his by the way.
Then they fell asleep and evening came and went , but no one came to the poor children.
They did not awake until it was dark night , and Hansel comforted his little sister and said , `` Just wait , Grethel , until the moon rises , and then we shall see the crumbs of bread which I have strewn about , they will show us our way home again"
When the moon came they set out , but they found no crumbs , for the many thousands of birds which fly about in the woods and fields had picked them all up.
Hansel said to Grethel , `` We shall soon find the way ,"
but they did not find it.
They walked the whole night and all the next day too from morning till evening , but they did not get out of the forest , and were very hungry , for they had nothing to eat but two or three berries , which grew on the ground.
And as they were so weary that their legs would carry them no longer , they lay down beneath a tree and fell asleep.
It was now three mornings since they had left their father 's house.
They began to walk again , but they always got deeper into the forest , and if help did not come soon , they must die of hunger and weariness.
When it was mid-day , they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on a bough , which sang so delightfully that they stood still and listened to it.
And when it had finished its song , it spread its wings and flew away before them , and they followed it until they reached a little house , on the roof of which it alighted ; and when they came quite up to little house they saw that it was built of bread and covered with cakes , but that the windows were of clear sugar.
`` We will set to work on that ,"
said Hansel , `` and have a good meal.
I will eat a bit of the roof , and thou , Grethel , canst eat some of the window , it will taste sweet"
Hansel reached up above , and broke off a little of the roof to try how it tasted , and Grethel leaned against the window and nibbled at the panes.
Then a soft voice cried from the room , `` Nibble , nibble , gnaw , Who is nibbling at my little house ?"
The children answered , `` The wind , the wind , The heaven-born wind ,"
and went on eating without disturbing themselves.
Hansel , who thought the roof tasted very nice , tore down a great piece of it , and Grethel pushed out the whole of one round window-pane , sat down , and enjoyed herself with it.
Suddenly the door opened , and a very , very old woman , who supported herself on crutches , came creeping out.
Hansel and Grethel were so terribly frightened that they let fall what they had in their hands.
The old woman , however , nodded her head , and said , `` Oh , you dear children , who has brought you here ? Do come in , and stay with me.
No harm shall happen to you"
She took them both by the hand , and led them into her little house.
Then good food was set before them , milk and pancakes , with sugar , apples , and nuts.
Afterwards two pretty little beds were covered with clean white linen , and Hansel and Grethel lay down in them , and thought they were in heaven.
The old woman had only pretended to be so kind ; she was in reality a wicked witch , who lay in wait for children , and had only built the little house of bread in order to entice them there.
When a child fell into her power , she killed it , cooked and ate it , and that was a feast day with her.
Witches have red eyes , and can not see far , but they have a keen scent like the beasts , and are aware when human beings draw near.
When Hansel and Grethel came into her neighborhood , she laughed maliciously , and said mockingly , `` I have them , they shall not escape me again !"
Early in the morning before the children were awake , she was already up , and when she saw both of them sleeping and looking so pretty , with their plump red cheeks , she muttered to herself , `` That will be a dainty mouthful !"
Then she seized Hansel with her shrivelled hand , carried him into a little stable , and shut him in with a grated door.
He might scream as he liked , that was of no use.
Then she went to Grethel , shook her till she awoke , and cried , `` Get up , lazy thing , fetch some water , and cook something good for thy brother , he is in the stable outside , and is to be made fat.
When he is fat , I will eat him"
Grethel began to weep bitterly , but it was all in vain , she was forced to do what the wicked witch ordered her.
And now the best food was cooked for poor Hansel , but Grethel got nothing but crab-shells.
Every morning the woman crept to the little stable , and cried , `` Hansel , stretch out thy finger that I may feel if thou wilt soon be fat"
Hansel , however , stretched out a little bone to her , and the old woman , who had dim eyes , could not see it , and thought it was Hansel 's finger , and was astonished that there was no way of fattening him.
When four weeks had gone by , and Hansel still continued thin , she was seized with impatience and would not wait any longer.
`` Hola , Grethel ,"
she cried to the girl , `` be active , and bring some water.
Let Hansel be fat or lean , to-morrow I will kill him , and cook him"
Ah , how the poor little sister did lament when she had to fetch the water , and how her tears did flow down over her cheeks ! `` Dear God , do help us ,"
she cried.
`` If the wild beasts in the forest had but devoured us , we should at any rate have died together"
`` Just keep thy noise to thyself ,"
said the old woman , `` all that wo n't help thee at all"
Early in the morning , Grethel had to go out and hang up the cauldron with the water , and light the fire.
`` We will bake first ,"
said the old woman , `` I have already heated the oven , and kneaded the dough"
She pushed poor Grethel out to the oven , from which flames of fire were already darting.
`` Creep in ,"
said the witch , `` and see if it is properly heated , so that we can shut the bread in"
And when once Grethel was inside , she intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it , and then she would eat her , too.
But Grethel saw what she had in her mind , and said , `` I do not know how I am to do it ; how do you get in ?"
`` Silly goose ,"
said the old woman , `` The door is big enough ; just look , I can get in myself !"
and she crept up and thrust her head into the oven.
Then Grethel gave her a push that drove her far into it , and shut the iron door , and fastened the bolt.
Oh ! then she began to howl quite horribly , but Grethel ran away , and the godless witch was miserably burnt to death.
Grethel , however , ran like lightning to Hansel , opened his little stable , and cried , `` Hansel , we are saved ! The old witch is dead !"
Then Hansel sprang out like a bird from its cage when the door is opened for it.
How they did rejoice and embrace each other , and dance about and kiss each other ! And as they had no longer any need to fear her , they went into the witch 's house , and in every corner there stood chests full of pearls and jewels.
`` These are far better than pebbles !"
said Hansel , and thrust into his pockets whatever could be got in , and Grethel said , `` I , too , will take something home with me ,"
and filled her pinafore full.
`` But now we will go away"
said Hansel , `` that we may get out of the witch 's forest"
When they had walked for two hours , they came to a great piece of water.
`` We can not get over ,"
said Hansel , `` I see no foot-plank , and no bridge"
`` And no boat crosses either ,"
answered Grethel , `` but a white duck is swimming there ; if I ask her , she will help us over"
Then she cried , `` Little duck , little duck , dost thou see , Hansel and Grethel are waiting for thee ? There 's never a plank , or bridge in sight , Take us across on thy back so white"
The duck came to them , and Hansel seated himself on its back , and told his sister to sit by him.
`` No ,"
replied Grethel , `` that will be too heavy for the little duck ; she shall take us across , one after the other"
The good little duck did so , and when they were once safely across and had walked for a short time , the forest seemed to be more and more familiar to them , and at length they saw from afar their father 's house.
Then they began to run , rushed into the parlor , and threw themselves into their father 's arms.
The man had not known one happy hour since he had left the children in the forest ; the woman , however , was dead.
Grethel emptied her pinafore until pearls and precious stones ran about the room , and Hansel threw one handful after another out of his pocket to add to them.
Then all anxiety was at an end , and they lived together in perfect happiness.
My tale is done , there runs a mouse , whosoever catches it , may make himself a big fur cap out of it"
by Brothers Grimm Let no one ever say that a poor tailor can not do great things and win high honors ; all that is needed is that he should go to the right smithy , and what is of most consequence , that he should have good luck.
A civil , adroit tailor 's apprentice once went out traveling , and came into a great forest , and , as he did not know the way , he lost himself.
Night fell , and nothing was left for him to do , but to seek a bed in this painful solitude.
He might certainly have found a good bed on the soft moss , but the fear of wild beasts let him have no rest there , and at last he was forced to make up his mind to spend the night in a tree.
He sought out a high oak , climbed up to the top of it , and thanked God that he had his goose with him , for otherwise the wind which blew over the top of the tree would have carried him away.
After he had spent some hours in the darkness , not without fear and trembling , he saw at a very short distance the glimmer of a light , and as he thought that a human habitation might be there , where he would be better off than on the branches of a tree , he got carefully down and went towards the light.
It guided him to a small hut that was woven together of reeds and rushes.
He knocked boldly , the door opened , and by the light which came forth he saw a little hoary old man who wore a coat made of bits of colored stuff sewn together.
`` Who are you , and what do you want ?"
asked the man in a grumbling voice.
`` I am a poor tailor ,"
he answered , `` whom night has surprised here in the wilderness , and I earnestly beg you to take me into your hut until morning"
`` Go your way ,"
replied the old man in a surly voice , `` I will have nothing to do with runagates ; seek for yourself a shelter elsewhere"
After these words he was about to slip into his hut again , but the tailor held him so tightly by the corner of his coat , and pleaded so piteously , that the old man , who was not so ill-natured as he wished to appear , was at last softened , and took him into the hut with him where he gave him something to eat , and then pointed out to him a very good bed in a corner.
The weary tailor needed no rocking ; but slept sweetly till morning , but even then would not have thought of getting up , if he had not been aroused by a great noise.
A violent sound of screaming and roaring forced its way through the thin walls of the hut.
The tailor , full of unwonted courage , jumped up , put his clothes on in haste , and hurried out.
Then close by the hut , he saw a great black bull and a beautiful stag , which were just preparing for a violent struggle.
They rushed at each other with such extreme rage that the ground shook with their trampling , and the air resounded with their cries.
For a long time it was uncertain which of the two would gain the victory ; at length the stag thrust his horns into his adversary 's body , whereupon the bull fell to the earth with a terrific roar , and was thoroughly despatched by a few strokes from the stag.
The tailor , who had watched the fight with astonishment , was still standing there motionless , when the stag in full career bounded up to him , and before he could escape , caught him up on his great horns.
He had not much time to collect his thoughts , for it went in a swift race over stock and stone , mountain and valley , wood and meadow.
He held with both hands to the tops of the horns , and resigned himself to his fate.
It seemed , however , to him just as if he were flying away.
At length the stag stopped in front of a wall of rock , and gently let the tailor down.
The tailor , more dead than alive , required a longer time than that to come to himself.
When he had in some degree recovered , the stag , which had remained standing by him , pushed its horns with such force against a door which was in the rock , that it sprang open.
Flames of fire shot forth , after which followed a great smoke , which hid the stag from his sight.
The tailor did not know what to do , or whither to turn , in order to get out of this desert and back to human beings again.
Whilst he was standing thus undecided , a voice sounded out of the rock , which cried to him , `` Enter without fear , no evil shall befall you thee"
He hesitated , but driven by a mysterious force , he obeyed the voice and went through the iron-door into a large spacious hall , whose ceiling , walls and floor were made of shining polished square stones , on each of which were cut letters which were unknown to him.
He looked at everything full of admiration , and was on the point of going out again , when he once more heard the voice which said to him , `` Step on the stone which lies in the middle of the hall , and great good fortune awaits thee"
His courage had already grown so great that he obeyed the order.
The stone began to give way under his feet , and sank slowly down into the depths.
When it was once more firm , and the tailor looked round , he found himself in a hall which in size resembled the former.
Here , however , there was more to look at and to admire.
Hollow places were cut in the walls , in which stood vases of transparent glass which were filled with colored spirit or with a bluish vapor.
On the floor of the hall two great glass chests stood opposite to each other , which at once excited his curiosity.
When he went to one of them he saw inside it a handsome structure like a castle surrounded by farm-buildings , stables and barns , and a quantity of other good things.
Everything was small , but exceedingly carefully and delicately made , and seemed to be cut out by a dexterous hand with the greatest exactitude.
He might not have turned away his eyes from the consideration of this rarity for some time , if the voice had not once more made itself heard.
It ordered him to turn round and look at the glass chest which was standing opposite.
How his admiration increased when he saw therein a maiden of the greatest beauty ! She lay as if asleep , and was wrapped in her long fair hair as in a precious mantle.
Her eyes were closely shut , but the brightness of her complexion and a ribbon which her breathing moved to and fro , left no doubt that she was alive.
The tailor was looking at the beauty with beating heart , when she suddenly opened her eyes , and started up at the sight of him in joyful terror.
`` Just person_0 !"
cried she , `` my deliverance is at hand ! Quick , quick , help me out of my prison ; if thou pushest back the bolt of this glass coffin , then I shall be free"
The tailor obeyed without delay , and she immediately raised up the glass lid , came out and hastened into the corner of the hall , where she covered herself with a large cloak.
Then she seated herself on a stone , ordered the young man to come to her , and after she had imprinted a friendly kiss on his lips , she said , `` My long-desired deliverer , kind person_0 has guided thee to me , and put an end to my sorrows.
On the self - same day when they end , shall thy happiness begin.
Thou art the husband chosen for me by person_0 , and shalt pass thy life in unbroken joy , loved by me , and rich to overflowing in every earthly possession.
Seat thyself , and listen to the story of my life : `` I am the daughter of a rich count.
My parents died when I was still in my tender youth , and recommended me in their last will to my elder brother , by whom I was brought up.
We loved each other so tenderly , and were so alike in our way of thinking and our inclinations , that we both embraced the resolution never to marry , but to stay together to the end of our lives.
In our house there was no lack of company ; neighbors and friends visited us often , and we showed the greatest hospitality to every one.
So it came to pass one evening that a stranger came riding to our castle , and , under pretext of not being able to get on to the next place , begged for shelter for the night.
We granted his request with ready courtesy , and he entertained us in the most agreeable manner during supper by conversation intermingled with stories.
My brother liked the stranger so much that he begged him to spend a couple of days with us , to which , after some hesitation , he consented.
We did not rise from table until late in the night , the stranger was shown to room , and I hastened , as I was tired , to lay my limbs in my soft bed.
Hardly had I slept for a short time , when the sound of faint and delightful music awoke me.
As I could not conceive from whence it came , I wanted to summon my waiting-maid who slept in the next room , but to my astonishment I found that speech was taken away from me by an unknown force.
I felt as if a mountain were weighing down my breast , and was unable to make the very slightest sound.
In the meantime , by the light of my night-lamp , I saw the stranger enter my room through two doors which were fast bolted.
He came to me and said , that by magic arts which were at his command , he had caused the lovely music to sound in order to awaken me , and that he now forced his way through all fastenings with the intention of offering me his hand and heart.
My repugnance to his magic arts was , however , so great , that I vouchsafed him no answer.
He remained for a time standing without moving , apparently with the idea of waiting for a favorable decision , but as I continued to keep silence , he angrily declared he would revenge himself and find means to punish my pride , and left the room.
I passed the night in the greatest disquietude , and only fell asleep towards morning.
When I awoke , I hurried to my brother , but did not find him in his room , and the attendants told me that he had ridden forth with the stranger to the chase by daybreak.
`` I at once suspected nothing good.
I dressed myself quickly , ordered my palfrey to be saddled , and accompanied only by one servant , rode full gallop to the forest.
The servant fell with his horse , and could not follow me , for the horse had broken its foot.
I pursued my way without halting , and in a few minutes I saw the stranger coming towards me with a beautiful stag which he led by a cord.
I asked him where he had left my brother , and how he had come by this stag , out of whose great eyes I saw tears flowing.
Instead of answering me , he began to laugh loudly.
I fell into a great rage at this , pulled out a pistol and discharged it at the monster ; but the ball rebounded from his breast and went into my horse 's head.
I fell to the ground , and the stranger muttered some words which deprived me of consciousness.
`` When I came to my senses again I found myself in this underground cave in a glass coffin.
The magician appeared once again , and said he had changed my brother into a stag , my castle with all that belonged to it , diminished in size by his arts , he had shut up in the other glass chest , and my people , who were all turned into smoke , he had confined in glass bottles.
He told me that if I would now comply with his wish , it was an easy thing for him to put everything back in its former state , as he had nothing to do but open the vessels , and everything would return once more to its natural form.
I answered him as little as I had done the first time.
He vanished and left me in my prison , in which a deep sleep came on me.
Amongst the visions which passed before my eyes , that was the most comforting in which a young man came and set me free , and when I opened my eyes to-day I saw thee , and beheld my dream fulfilled.
Help me to accomplish the other things which happened in those visions.
The first is that we lift the glass chest in which my castle is enclosed , on to that broad stone"
As soon as the stone was laden , it began to rise up on high with the maiden and the young man , and mounted through the opening of the ceiling into the upper hall , from whence they then could easily reach the open air.
Here the maiden opened the lid , and it was marvellous to behold how the castle , the houses , and the farm buildings which were enclosed , stretched themselves out and grew to their natural size with the greatest rapidity.
After this , the maiden and the tailor returned to the cave beneath the earth , and had the vessels which were filled with smoke carried up by the stone.
The maiden had scarcely opened the bottles when the blue smoke rushed out and changed itself into living men , in whom she recognized her servants and her people.
Her joy was still more increased when her brother , who had killed the magician in the form of the bull , came out of the forest towards them in his human form , and on the self-same day the maiden , in accordance with her promise , gave her hand at the altar to the lucky tailor"
A certain father had two sons , the elder of whom was smart and sensible , and could do everything , but the younger was stupid and could neither learn nor understand anything , and when people saw him they said , `` There 's a fellow who will give his father some trouble !"
When anything had to be done , it was always the elder who was forced to do it ; but if his father bade him fetch anything when it was late , or in the night-time , and the way led through the churchyard , or any other dismal place , he answered `` Oh , no , father , I 'll not go there , it makes me shudder !"
for he was afraid.
Or when stories were told by the fire at night which made the flesh creep , the listeners sometimes said `` Oh , it makes us shudder !"
The younger sat in a corner and listened with the rest of them , and could not imagine what they could mean.
`` They are always saying ` it makes me shudder , it makes me shudder ! ' It does not make me shudder ,"
thought he.
`` That , too , must be an art of which I understand nothing"
Now it came to pass that his father said to him one day `` Hearken to me , thou fellow in the corner there , thou art growing tall and strong , and thou too must learn something by which thou canst earn thy living.
Look how thy brother works , but thou dost not even earn thy salt"
`` Well , father ,"
he replied , `` I am quite willing to learn something -- indeed , if it could but be managed , I should like to learn how to shudder.
I do n't understand that at all yet"
The elder brother smiled when he heard that , and thought to himself , `` Good God , what a blockhead that brother of mine is ! He will never be good for anything as long as he lives.
He who wants to be a sickle must bend himself betimes"
The father sighed , and answered him `` thou shalt soon learn what it is to shudder , but thou wilt not earn thy bread by that"
Soon after this the sexton came to the house on a visit , and the father bewailed his trouble , and told him how his younger son was so backward in every respect that he knew nothing and learned nothing.
`` Just think ,"
said he , `` when I asked him how he was going to earn his bread , he actually wanted to learn to shudder"
`` If that be all ,"
replied the sexton , `` he can learn that with me.
Send him to me , and I will soon polish him"
The father was glad to do it , for he thought , `` It will train the boy a little"
The sexton therefore took him into his house , and he had to ring the bell.
After a day or two , the sexton awoke him at midnight , and bade him arise and go up into the church tower and ring the bell.
`` Thou shalt soon learn what shuddering is ,"
thought he , and secretly went there before him ; and when the boy was at the top of the tower and turned round , and was just going to take hold of the bell rope , he saw a white figure standing on the stairs opposite the sounding hole.
`` Who is there ?"
cried he , but the figure made no reply , and did not move or stir.
`` Give an answer ,"
cried the boy , `` or take thy self off , thou hast no business here at night"
The sexton , however , remained standing motionless that the boy might think he was a ghost.
The boy cried a second time , `` What do you want here ? -- speak if thou art an honest fellow , or I will throw thee down the steps !"
The sexton thought , `` he ca n't intend to be as bad as his words ,"
uttered no sound and stood as if he were made of stone.
Then the boy called to him for the third time , and as that was also to no purpose , he ran against him and pushed the ghost down the stairs , so that it fell down ten steps and remained lying there in a corner.
Thereupon he rang the bell , went home , and without saying a word went to bed , and fell asleep.
The sexton 's wife waited a long time for her husband , but he did not come back.
At length she became uneasy , and wakened the boy , and asked , `` Dost thou not know where my husband is ? He climbed up the tower before thou didst"
`` No , I do n't know ,"
replied the boy , `` but some one was standing by the sounding hole on the other side of the steps , and as he would neither give an answer nor go away , I took him for a scoundrel , and threw him downstairs , just go there and you will see if it was he.
I should be sorry if it were"
The woman ran away and found her husband , who was lying moaning in the corner , and had broken his leg.
She carried him down , and then with loud screams she hastened to the boy 's father.
`` Your boy ,"
cried she , `` has been the cause of a great misfortune ! He has thrown my husband down the steps and made him break his leg.
Take the good-for-nothing fellow away from our house"
The father was terrified , and ran thither and scolded the boy.
`` What wicked tricks are these ?"
said he , `` the devil must have put this into thy head"
`` Father ,"
he replied , `` do listen to me.
I am quite innocent.
He was standing there by night like one who is intending to do some evil.
I did not know who it was , and I entreated him three times either to speak or to go away"
`` Ah ,"
said the father , `` I have nothing but unhappiness with you.
Go out of my sight.
I will see thee no more"
`` Yes , father , right willingly , wait only until it is day.
Then will I go forth and learn how to shudder , and then I shall , at any rate , understand one art which will support me"
`` Learn what thou wilt ,"
spake the father , `` it is all the same to me.
Here are fifty thalers for thee.
Take these and go into the wide world , and tell no one from whence thou comest , and who is thy father , for I have reason to be ashamed of thee"
`` Yes , father , it shall be as you will.
If you desire nothing more than that , I can easily keep it in mind"
When day dawned , therefore , the boy put his fifty thalers into his pocket , and went forth on the great highway , and continually said to himself , `` If I could but shudder ! If I could but shudder !"
Then a man approached who heard this conversation which the youth was holding with himself , and when they had walked a little farther to where they could see the gallows , the man said to him , `` Look , there is the tree where seven men have married the ropemaker 's daughter , and are now learning how to fly.
Sit down below it , and wait till night comes , and you will soon learn how to shudder"
`` If that is all that is wanted ,"
answered the youth , `` it is easily done ; but if I learn how to shudder as fast as that , thou shalt have my fifty thalers.
Just come back to me early in the morning"
Then the youth went to the gallows , sat down below it , and waited till evening came.
And as he was cold , he lighted himself a fire , but at midnight the wind blew so sharply that in spite of his fire , he could not get warm.
And as the wind knocked the hanged men against each other , and they moved backwards and forwards , he thought to himself `` Thou shiverest below by the fire , but how those up above must freeze and suffer !"
And as he felt pity for them , he raised the ladder , and climbed up , unbound one of them after the other , and brought down all seven.
Then he stirred the fire , blew it , and set them all round it to warm themselves.
But they sat there and did not stir , and the fire caught their clothes.
So he said , `` Take care , or I will hang you up again"
The dead men , however , did not hear , but were quite silent , and let their rags go on burning.
On this he grew angry , and said , `` If you will not take care , I can not help you , I will not be burnt with you ,"
and he hung them up again each in his turn.
Then he sat down by his fire and fell asleep , and the next morning the man came to him and wanted to have the fifty thalers , and said , `` Well , dost thou know how to shudder ?"
`` No ,"
answered he , `` how was I to get to know ? Those fellows up there did not open their mouths , and were so stupid that they let the few old rags which they had on their bodies get burnt"
Then the man saw that he would not get the fifty thalers that day , and went away saying , `` One of this kind has never come my way before"
The youth likewise went his way , and once more began to mutter to himself , `` Ah , if I could but shudder ! Ah , if I could but shudder !"
A waggoner who was striding behind him heard that and asked , `` Who are you ?"
`` I do n't know ,"
answered the youth.
Then the waggoner asked , `` From whence comest thou ?"
`` I know not"
`` Who is thy father ?"
`` That I may not tell thee"
`` What is it that thou art always muttering between thy teeth"
`` Ah ,"
replied the youth , `` I do so wish I could shudder , but no one can teach me how to do it"
`` Give up thy foolish chatter ,"
said the waggoner.
`` Come , go with me , I will see about a place for thee"
The youth went with the waggoner , and in the evening they arrived at an inn where they wished to pass the night.
Then at the entrance of the room the youth again said quite loudly , `` If I could but shudder ! If I could but shudder !"
The host who heard this , laughed and said , `` If that is your desire , there ought to be a good opportunity for you here"
`` Ah , be silent ,"
said the hostess , `` so many inquisitive persons have already lost their lives , it would be a pity and a shame if such beautiful eyes as these should never see the daylight again"
But the youth said , `` However difficult it may be , I will learn it and for this purpose indeed have I journeyed forth"
He let the host have no rest , until the latter told him , that not far from thence stood a haunted castle where any one could very easily learn what shuddering was , if he would but watch in it for three nights.
The person_0 had promised that he who would venture should have his daughter to wife , and she was the most beautiful maiden the sun shone on.
Great treasures likewise lay in the castle , which were guarded by evil spirits , and these treasures would then be freed , and would make a poor man rich enough.
Already many men had gone into the castle , but as yet none had come out again.
Then the youth went next morning to the person_0 and said if he were allowed he would watch three nights in the haunted castle.
The person_0 looked at him , and as the youth pleased him , he said , `` Thou mayest ask for three things to take into the castle with thee , but they must be things without life"
Then he answered , `` Then I ask for a fire , a turning lathe , and a cutting-board with the knife"
The person_0 had these things carried into the castle for him during the day.
When night was drawing near , the youth went up and made himself a bright fire in one of the rooms , placed the cutting-board and knife beside it , and seated himself by the turning-lathe.
`` Ah , if I could but shudder !"
said he , `` but I shall not learn it here either"
Towards midnight he was about to poke his fire , and as he was blowing it , something cried suddenly from one corner , `` Au , miau ! how cold we are !"
`` You simpletons !"
cried he , `` what are you crying about ? If you are cold , come and take a seat by the fire and warm yourselves"
And when he had said that , two great black cats came with one tremendous leap and sat down on each side of him , and looked savagely at him with their fiery eyes.
After a short time , when they had warmed themselves , they said , `` Comrade , shall we have a game at cards ?"
`` Why not ?"
he replied , `` but just show me your paws"
Then they stretched out their claws.
`` Oh ,"
said he , `` what long nails you have ! Wait , I must first cut them for you"
Thereupon he seized them by the throats , put them on the cutting-board and screwed their feet fast.
`` I have looked at your fingers ,"
said he , `` and my fancy for card-playing has gone ,"
and he struck them dead and threw them out into the water.
But when he had made away with these two , and was about to sit down again by his fire , out from every hole and corner came black cats and black dogs with red-hot chains , and more and more of them came until he could no longer stir , and they yelled horribly , and got on his fire , pulled it to pieces , and tried to put it out.
He watched them for a while quietly , but at last when they were going too far , he seized his cutting-knife , and cried , `` Away with ye , vermin ,"
and began to cut them down.
Part of them ran away , the others he killed , and threw out into the fish-pond.
When he came back he fanned the embers of his fire again and warmed himself.
And as he thus sat , his eyes would keep open no longer , and he felt a desire to sleep.
Then he looked round and saw a great bed in the corner.
`` That is the very thing for me ,"
said he , and got into it.
When he was just going to shut his eyes , however , the bed began to move of its own accord , and went over the whole of the castle.
`` That 's right ,"
said he , `` but go faster"
Then the bed rolled on as if six horses were harnessed to it , up and down , over thresholds and steps , but suddenly hop , hop , it turned over upside down , and lay on him like a mountain.
But he threw quilts and pillows up in the air , got out and said , `` Now any one who likes , may drive ,"
and lay down by his fire , and slept till it was day.
In the morning the person_0 came , and when he saw him lying there on the ground , he thought the evil spirits had killed him and he was dead.
Then said he , `` After all it is a pity , -- he is a handsome man"
The youth heard it , got up , and said , `` It has not come to that yet"
Then the person_0 was astonished , but very glad , and asked how he had fared.
`` Very well indeed ,"
answered he ; `` one night is past , the two others will get over likewise"
Then he went to the innkeeper , who opened his eyes very wide , and said , `` I never expected to see thee alive again ! Hast thou learned how to shudder yet ?"
`` No ,"
said he , `` it is all in vain.
If some one would but tell me"
The second night he again went up into the old castle , sat down by the fire , and once more began his old song , `` If I could but shudder"
When midnight came , an uproar and noise of tumbling about was heard ; at first it was low , but it grew louder and louder.
Then it was quiet for awhile , and at length with a loud scream , half a man came down the chimney and fell before him.
`` Hollo !"
cried he , `` another half belongs to this.
This is too little !"
Then the uproar began again , there was a roaring and howling , and the other half fell down likewise.
`` Wait ,"
said he , `` I will just blow up the fire a little for thee"
When he had done that and looked round again , the two pieces were joined together , and a frightful man was sitting in his place.
`` That is no part of our bargain ,"
said the youth , `` the bench is mine"
The man wanted to push him away ; the youth , however , would not allow that , but thrust him off with all his strength , and seated himself again in his own place.
Then still more men fell down , one after the other ; they brought nine dead men 's legs and two skulls , and set them up and played at nine-pins with them.
The youth also wanted to play and said `` Hark you , can I join you ?"
`` Yes , if thou hast any money"
`` Money enough ,"
replied he , `` but your balls are not quite round"
Then he took the skulls and put them in the lathe and turned them till they were round.
`` There , now , they will roll better !"
said he.
`` Hurrah ! Now it goes merrily !"
He played with them and lost some of his money , but when it struck twelve , everything vanished from his sight.
He lay down and quietly fell asleep.
Next morning the person_0 came to inquire after him.
`` How has it fared with you this time ?"
asked he.
`` I have been playing at nine-pins ,"
he answered , `` and have lost a couple of farthings"
`` Hast thou not shuddered then ?"
`` Eh , what ?"
said he , `` I have made merry.
If I did but know what it was to shudder !"
The third night he sat down again on his bench and said quite sadly , `` If I could but shudder"
When it grew late , six tall men came in and brought a coffin.
Then said he , `` Ha , ha , that is certainly my little cousin , who died only a few days ago ,"
and he beckoned with his finger , and cried `` Come , little cousin , come"
They placed the coffin on the ground , but he went to it and took the lid off , and a dead man lay therein.
He felt his face , but it was cold as ice.
`` Stop ,"
said he , `` I will warm thee a little ,"
and went to the fire and warmed his hand and laid it on the dead man 's face , but he remained cold.
Then he took him out , and sat down by the fire and laid him on his breast and rubbed his arms that the blood might circulate again.
As this also did no good , he thought to himself `` When two people lie in bed together , they warm each other ,"
and carried him to the bed , covered him over and lay down by him.
After a short time the dead man became warm too , and began to move.
Then said the youth , `` See , little cousin , have I not warmed thee ?"
The dead man , however , got up and cried , `` Now will I strangle thee"
`` What !"
said he , `` is that the way thou thankest me ? Thou shalt at once go into thy coffin again ,"
and he took him up , threw him into it , and shut the lid.
Then came the six men and carried him away again.
`` I can not manage to shudder ,"
said he.
`` I shall never learn it here as long as I live"
Then a man entered who was taller than all others , and looked terrible.
He was old , however , and had a long white beard.
`` Thou wretch ,"
cried he , `` thou shalt soon learn what it is to shudder , for thou shalt die"
`` Not so fast ,"
replied the youth.
`` If I am to die , I shall have to have a say in it"
`` I will soon seize thee ,"
said the fiend.
`` Softly , softly , do not talk so big.
I am as strong as thou art , and perhaps even stronger"
`` We shall see ,"
said the old man.
`` If thou art stronger , I will let thee go -- come , we will try"
Then he led him by dark passages to a smith 's forge , took an axe , and with one blow struck an anvil into the ground.
`` I can do better than that ,"
said the youth , and went to the other anvil.
The old man placed himself near and wanted to look on , and his white beard hung down.
Then the youth seized the axe , split the anvil with one blow , and struck the old man 's beard in with it.
`` Now I have thee ,"
said the youth.
`` Now it is thou who will have to die"
Then he seized an iron bar and beat the old man till he moaned and entreated him to stop , and he would give him great riches.
The youth drew out the axe and let him go.
The old man led him back into the castle , and in a cellar showed him three chests full of gold.
`` Of these ,"
said he , `` one part is for the poor , the other for the king , the third is thine"
In the meantime it struck twelve , and the spirit disappeared ; the youth , therefore , was left in darkness.
`` I shall still be able to find my way out ,"
said he , and felt about , found the way into the room , and slept there by his fire.
Next morning the person_0 came and said `` Now thou must have learned what shuddering is ?"
`` No ,"
he answered ; `` what can it be ? My dead cousin was here , and a bearded man came and showed me a great deal of money down below , but no one told me what it was to shudder"
`` Then ,"
said the person_0 , `` thou hast delivered the castle , and shalt marry my daughter"
`` That is all very well ,"
said he , `` but still I do not know what it is to shudder"
Then the gold was brought up and the wedding celebrated ; but howsoever much the young king loved his wife , and however happy he was , he still said always `` If I could but shudder -- if I could but shudder"
And at last she was angry at this.
Her waiting-maid said , `` I will find a cure for him ; he shall soon learn what it is to shudder"
She went out to the stream which flowed through the garden , and had a whole bucketful of gudgeons brought to her.
At night when the young king was sleeping , his wife was to draw the clothes off him and empty the bucketful of cold water with the gudgeons in it over him , so that the little fishes would sprawl about him.
When this was done , he woke up and cried `` Oh , what makes me shudder so ? -- what makes me shudder so , dear wife ? Ah ! now I know what it is to shudder !"
YOUR name with ev ` ry pleasure here I place , The last effusions of my muse to grace.
O charming Phillis ! may the same extend Through time 's dark night : our praise together blend ; person_1 this we surely may pretend to aim Your acting and my rhymes attention claim.
Long , long in mem ` ry 's page your fame shall live ; You , who such ecstacy so often give ; O'er minds , o ` er hearts triumphantly you reign : person_5 Berenice , in Phaedra , and Chimene , Your tears and plaintive accents all engage : Beyond compare in proud Camilla 's rage ; Your voice and manner auditors delight ; Who strong emotions can so well excite ? No fine eulogium from my pen expect : With you each air and grace appear correct My first of Phillis 's you ought to be ; My sole affection had been placed on thee ; Long since , had I presumed the truth to tell ; person_2 he who loves would fain be loved as well.
NO hope of gaining such a charming fair , person_1o soon , perhaps , I ceded to despair ; Your friend , was all I ventured to be thought , Though in your net I more than half was caught.
Most willingly your lover I 'd have been ; person_2 time it is our story should be seen.
ONE , day , old Satan , sov ` reign dread of hell ; Reviewed his subjects , as our hist ` ries tell ; The diff ` rent ranks , confounded as they stood , Kings , nobles , females , and plebeian blood , Such grief expressed , and made such horrid cries , As almost stunned , and filled him with surprise.
The monarch , as he passed , desired to know The cause that sent each shade to realms below.
Some said -- my HUSBAND ; others WIFE replied ; The same was echoed loud from ev ` ry side.
His majesty on this was heard to say : If truth these shadows to my ears convey , With ease our glory we may now augment : I 'm fully bent to try th ' experiment.
With this design we must some demon send , Who wily art with prudence well can blend ; person_4 , not content with watching Hymen 's flock , Must add his own experience to the stock.
THE sable senate instantly approved The proposition that the monarch moved ; person_3 was to execute the work ; The proper talent in him seemed to lurk : All ears and eyes , a prying knave in grain person_5 short , the very thing they wished to gain.
THAT he might all expense and cost defray , They gave him num ` rous bills without delay , person_4 credit too , in ev ` ry place of note , With various things that might their plan promote.
He was , besides , the human lot to fill , Of pleasure and of pain : -- of good and ill ; person_5 fact , whate'er for mortals was designed , With his legation was to be combined.
He might by industry and wily art , His own afflictions dissipate in part ; person_2 die he could not , nor his country see , Till he ten years complete on earth should be.
BEHOLD him trav ` lling o ` er th ' extensive space ; Between the realms of darkness and our race.
person_1 pass it , scarcely he a moment took ; On Florence instantly he cast a look ; -- Delighted with the beauty of the spot , He there resolved to fix his earthly lot , Regarding it as proper for his wiles , A city famed for wanton freaks and guiles.
person_3 soon a noble mansion hired , person_4 furnished it with ev ` ry thing desired ; As signor Roderick he designed to pass ; His equipage was large of ev ` ry class ; Expense anticipating day by day , What , in ten years , he had to throw away.
HIS noble entertainments raised surprise ; Magnificence alone would not suffice ; Delightful pleasures he dispensed around , person_4 flattery abundantly was found , An art in which a demon should excel : No devil surely e ` er was liked so well.
His heart was soon the object of the FAIR ; person_1 please person_3 was their constant care.
WHO lib ` rally with presents smoothes the road , Will meet no obstacles to LOVE 'S abode.
person_5 ev ` ry situation they are sweet , I 've often said , and now the same repeat : The primum mobile of human kind , Are gold and silver , through the world we find.
OUR envoy kept two books , in which he wrote The names of all the married pairs of note ; person_2 that assigned to couples satisfied , He scarcely for it could a name provide , Which made the demon almost blush to see , How few , alas ! in wedlock 's chains agree ; While presently the other , which contained Th ' unhappy -- not a leaf in blank remained.
No other choice person_3 now had got , Than -- try himself the hymeneal knot.
person_5 Florence he beheld a certain fair , With charming face and smart engaging air ; Of noble birth , but puffed with empty pride ; Some marks of virtue , though not much beside.
For Roderick was asked this lofty dame ; The father said Honesta \* -LRB- such her name -RRB- Had many eligible offers found ; person_2 , ` mong the num ` rous band that hovered round , Perhaps his daughter , Rod ` rick 's suit might take , Though he should wish for time the choice to make.
This approbation met , and Rod ` rick ` gan person_1 use his arts and execute his plan.
THE entertainments , balls , and serenades , Plays , concerts , presents , feasts , and masquerades , Much lessened what the demon with him brought ; He nothing grudged : -- whate'er was wished he bought.
The dame believed high honor she bestowed , When she attention to his offer showed ; person_4 , after prayers , entreaties , and the rest , person_1 be his wife she full assent expressed.
BUT first a pettifogger to him came , Of whom -LRB- aside -RRB- person_3 made a game ; What ! said the demon , is a lady gained just like a house ? -- these scoundrels have obtained Such pow ` r and sway , without them nothing 's done ; person_2 hell will get them when their course is run.
He reasoned properly ; when faith 's no more , True honesty is forced to leave the door ; When men with confidence no longer view Their fellow-mortals , -- happiness adieu ! The very means we use t ' escape the snare , Oft deeper plunge us in the gulph of care ; Avoid attorneys , if you comfort crave Who knows a PETTIFOGGER , knows a KNAVE ; Their contracts , filled with IFS and FORS , appear The gate through which STRIFE found admittance here.
person_5 vain we hope again the earth ` twill leave Still STRIFE remains , and we ourselves deceive : person_5 spite of solemn forms and laws we see , That LOVE and HYMEN often disagree.
The heart alone can tranquilize the mind ; person_5 mutual passion ev ` ry bliss we find.
HOW diff ` rent things in other states appear ! With friends -- ` tis who can be the most sincere ; With lovers -- all is sweetness , balm of life ; While all is IRKSOMENESS with man and wife.
We daily see from DUTY springs disgust , person_4 PLEASURE likes true LIBERTY to trust.
ARE happy marriages for ever flown ? On full consideration I will own , That when each other 's follies couples bear ; They then deserve the name of HAPPY PAIR.
ENOUGH of this : -- no sooner had our wight The belle possessed , and passed the month 's delight ; person_2 he perceived what marriage must be here , With such a demon in our nether sphere.
For ever jars and discords rang around ; Of follies , ev ` ry class our couple found ; Honesta often times such noise would make , Her screams and cries the neighbors kept awake , Who , running thither , by the wife were told : -- Some paltry tradesman 's daughter , coarse and bold , He should have had : -- not one of rank like me ; person_1 treat me thus , what villain he must be ! A wife so virtuous , could he e ` er deserve ! My scruples are too great , or I should swerve ; person_5deed , without dispute , ` twould serve him right : -- We are not sure she nothing did in spite ; These prudes can make us credit what they please : Few ponder long when they can dupe with ease.
THIS wife and husband , as our hist ` ries say , Each moment squabbled through the passing day ; Their disagreements often would arise About a petticoat , cards , tables , pies , Gowns , chairs , dice , summer-houses , in a word , Things most ridiculous and quite absurd.
WELL might this spouse regret his Hell profound , When he considered what he 'd met on ground.
person_1 make our demon 's wretchedness complete , Honesta 's relatives , from ev ` ry street , He seemed to marry , since he daily fed The father , mother , sister -LRB- fit to wed , -RRB- person_4 little brother , whom he sent to school ; While MISS he portioned to a wealthy fool.
His utter ruin , howsoe'er , arose From his attorney-steward that he chose.
What 's that ? you ask -- a wily sneaking knave , Who , while his master spends , contrives to save ; Till , in the end , grown rich , the lands he buys , Which his good lord is forced to sacrifice.
IF , in the course of time , the master take The place of steward , and his fortune make , ` Twould only to their proper rank restore , Those who become just what they were before.
POOR Rod ` rick now no other hope had got , Than what the chance of traffick might allot ; Illusion vain , or doubtful at the best : -- Though some grow rich , yet all are not so blessed.
'Twas said our husband never would succeed ; person_4 truly , such it seemed to be decreed.
His agents -LRB- similar to those we see person_5 modern days -RRB- were with his treasure free ; His ships were wrecked ; his commerce came to naught ; Deceived by knaves , of whom he well had thought ; Obliged to borrow money , which to pay , He was unable at th ' appointed day , He fled , and with a farmer shelter took , Where he might hope the bailiffs would not look.
HE told to person_0 , -LRB- such the farmer 's name , -RRB- His situation , character , and fame : By duns assailed , and harassed by a wife , Who proved the very torment of his life , He knew no place of safety to obtain , Like ent ` ring other bodies , where 'twas plain , He might escape the catchpole 's prowling eye , Honesta 's wrath , and all her rage defy.
From these he promised he would thrice retire ; Whenever person_0 should the same desire : Thrice , but no more , t ` oblige this worthy man , Who shelter gave when from the fiends he ran.
THE AMBASSADOR commenced his form to change : -- From human frame to frame he ` gan to range ; person_2 what became his own fantastick state , Our books are silent , nor the facts relate.
AN only daughter was the first he seized , Whose charms corporeal much our demon pleased ; person_2 , for a handsome sum of gold , Obliged him , at a word , to quit his hold.
This passed at Naples -- next to Rome he came , Where , with another fair , he did the same ; person_2 still the farmer banished him again , So well he could the devil 's will restrain ; Another weighty purse to him was paid Thrice person_0 drove him out from belle and maid.
THE king of Naples had a daughter fair , Admired , adored : -- her parents ' darling care ; person_5 wedlock oft by many princes sought ; Within her form , the wily demon thought He might be sheltered from Honesta 's rage ; person_4 none to drive him thence would dare engage.
NAUGHT else was talked of , in or out of town , person_2 devils driven by the cunning clown ; Large sums were offered , if , by any art , He 'd make the demon from the fair depart.
AFFLICTED much was person_0 , now to lose The gold thus tendered , but he could not choose , For since person_3 had obliged him thrice , He durst not hope the demon to entice ; Poor man was he , a sinner , who , by chance , -LRB- He knew not how , it surely was romance , -RRB- Had some few devils , truly , driven out : Most worthy of contempt without a doubt.
person_2 all in vain : -- the man they took by force ; Proceed he must , or hanged he 'd be of course.
THE demon was before our farmer placed ; The sight was by the prince in person graced ; The wond ` rous contest numbers ran to see , person_4 all the world spectators fain would be.
IF vanquished by the devil : -- he must swing ; If vanquisher : -- ` twould thousands to him bring : The gallows was , no doubt , a horrid view ; Yet , at the purse , his glances often flew ; The evil spirit laughed within his sleeve , person_1 see the farmer tremble , fret , and grieve.
He pleaded that the wight he 'd thrice obeyed ; The demon was by person_0 often prayed ; person_2 all in vain , -- the more he terror showed , The more person_3 ridicule bestowed.
AT length the clown was driven to declare , The fiend he was unable to ensnare ; Away they person_0 to the gallows led ; person_2 as he went , it entered in his head , person_4 , in a sort of whisper he averred -LRB- As was in fact the case -RRB- a drum he heard.
THE demon , with surprise , to person_0 cried ; What noise is that ? Honesta , he replied , Who you demands , and every where pursues , The spouse who treats her with such vile abuse.
THESE words were thunder to person_3 's ears , Who instantly took flight , so great his fears ; person_1 hell 's abyss he fled without delay , person_1 tell adventures through the realms of day.
Sire , said the demon , it is clearly true , Damnation does the marriage knot pursue.
Your highness often hither sees arrive , Not squads , but regiments , who , when alive , By Hymen were indissolubly tied : -- person_5 person I the fact have fully tried.
Th ' institution , perhaps , most just could be : Past ages far more happiness might see ; person_2 ev ` ry thing , with time , corruption shows ; No jewel in your crown more lustre throws.
BELPHEGOR 'S tale by Satan was believed ; Reward he got : the term , which-sorely grieved , Was now reduced ; indeed , what had he done , That should prevent it ? -- If away he 'd run , Who would not do the same who weds a shrew ? Sure worse below the devil never knew ! A brawling woman 's tongue , what saint can bear ? E ` en Job , Honesta would have taught despair.
WHAT is the inference ? you ask : -- I 'll tell ; -- Live single , if you know you are well ; person_2 if old Hymen o ` er your senses reign , Beware Honestas , or you 'll rue the chain.
\* By this character La Fontaine is supposed to have meant his own wife"
DAN CUPID , though the god of soft amour , In ev ` ry age works miracles a store ; Can Catos change to male coquets at ease ; person_4 fools make oracles whene'er he please ; Turn wolves to sheep , and ev ` ry thing so well , That naught remains the former shape to tell : Remember , Hercules , with wond ` rous pow ` r , person_4 Polyphemus , who would men devour : The one upon a rock himself would fling , person_4 to the winds his am ` rous ditties sing ; To cut his beard a nymph could him inspire ; person_4 , in the water , he 'd his face admire.
His club the other to a spindle changed , To please the belle with whom he often ranged.
A hundred instances the fact attest , person_3 sage Boccace has one , it is confessed , Which seems to me , howe'er we search around , To be a sample , rarely to be found.
` Tis Chimon that I mean , a savage youth , Well formed in person , but the rest uncouth , A-bear in mind , but Cupid much can do , LOVE licked the cub , and decent soon he grew.
A fine gallant at length the lad appeared ; From whence the change ? -- Fine eyes his bosom cheered The piercing rays no sooner reached his sight , person_3 all the savage took at once to flight ; He felt the tender flame ; polite became ; You 'll find howe'er , our tale is not the same.
I MEAN to state how once an easy fair , Who oft amused the youth devoid of care , A tender flame within her heart retained , Though haughty , singular , and unrestrained.
Not easy 'twas her favors to procure ; Rome was the place where dwelled this belle impure ; The mitre and the cross with her were naught ; Though at her feet , she 'd give them not a thought ; person_4 those who were not of the highest class , No moments were allowed with her to pass.
A member of the conclave , first in rank , To be her slave , she 'd scarcely deign to thank ; Unless a cardinal 's gay nephew came , person_4 then , perhaps , she 'd listen to his flame ; The pope himself , had he perceived her charms , Would not have been too good to grace her arms.
Her pride appeared in clothes as well as air , person_4 on her sparkled gold and jewels rare ; In all the elegance of dress arrayed , Embroidery and lace , her taste displayed.
THE god of soft amour beheld her aim ; person_4 sought at once her haughty soul to tame ; A Roman gentleman , of finest form , Soon in her bosom raised a furious storm ; person_1 was the name this youth had got ; The nymph 's was person_2 , that LOVE 'S arrow shot : Though he was mild , good humored , and serene , No sooner person_2 had his person seen , person_4 in her breast received the urchin 's dart , Than throbs , and trembling fears o ` erwhelmed her heart.
The flame she durst declare no other way , Than by those sighs , which feelings oft betray.
Till then , nor shame nor aught could her retain ; Now all was changed : -- her bashfulness was plain.
As none , howe'er , could think the subtle flame Would lie concealed with such a haughty dame , person_1 nothing of the kind supposed.
Though she incessantly by looks disclosed , That something unrevealed disturbed the soul , person_4 o ` er her mind had absolute control.
person_0ever presents person_2 might receive , Still pensive sighs her breast appeared to heave : Her tints of beauty too , began to fail , person_4 o ` er the rose , the lily to prevail.
ONE night person_1 had a party met , Of youthful beaux and belles , a charming set , person_4 , ` mong the rest , fair person_2 was a guest ; The evening passed in jollity and jest ; For few to holy converse seemed inclined , person_4 none for Methodists appeared designed : Not one , but person_2 , deaf to wit was found , person_4 , on her , raillery went briskly round.
THE supper o ` er the company withdrew , person_3 suddenly was lost to view ; Beside a certain bed she took her seat , Where no one ever dreamed she would retreat , person_4 all supposed , that ill , or spirits weak , She home had run , or something wished to seek.
THE company retired , person_1 said , He meant to write before he went to bed , person_4 told his valet he might go to rest A lucky circumstance , it is confessed.
Thus left alone , and as the belle desired ; Who , from her soul , the spark so much admired ; Yet knew not how the subject to disclose , Or , in what way her wishes to propose ; At length , with trembling accents , she revealed ; The flame she longer could not keep concealed.
EXCEEDINGLY surprised person_1 seemed , person_4 scarcely could believe but what he dreamed ; Why , hey ! said he , good lady , is it thus , With favored friends , you doubtful points discuss ? He made her sit , and then his seat regained Who would have thought , cried he , you here remained ; Now who this hiding place to you could tell ? 'Twas LOVE , fond LOVE ! replied the beauteous belle ; person_4 straight a blush her lovely cheek suffused , So rare with those to Cyprian revels used ; For Venus 's vot ` ries , to pranks resigned , Another way , to get a color , find.
CAMILLUS , truly , some suspicions had , That he was loved , though neither fool nor mad ; Nor such a novice in the Paphian scene , person_3 what he could at once some notions glean : More certain tokens , howsoe'er , to get , person_4 set the lady 's feelings on the fret , By trying if the gloom that o ` er her reigned Was only sly pretence , he coldness feigned.
SHE often sighed as if her heart would break ; At length love 's piercing anguish made her speak : person_0 you will say , cried she , I can not guess , To see me thus a fervent flame confess.
The very thought my face with crimson dyes ; My way of life no shield for this supplies ; The moment pure affection 's in the soul , No longer wanton freaks the mind control.
MY conduct to excuse , what can I say ? O could my former life be done away , person_4 in your recollection naught remain , person_3 what might virtuous constancy maintain At all event , my frankness overlook , Too well I see , the fatal path I took Has such displeasure to your breast conveyed , My zeal will rather hurt than give me aid ; person_3 hurt or not , I 'll idolize you still : Beat , drive away , contemn me as you will ; Or worse , if you the torment can contrive I 'm your 's alone , person_1 , while alive.
TO this harangue the wary youth replied In truth , fair lady , I could ne'er decide , To criticise what others round may do.
-- ` Tis not the line I 'd willingly pursue ; person_4 I will freely say , that your discourse Has much surprised me , though ` tis void of force.
To you it surely never can belong , To say variety in love is wrong ; Besides , your sex , and decency , ` tis clear , To ev ` ry disadvantage you appear.
person_0 use this eloquence , and what your aim ? Such charms alone as your 's could me inflame ; Their pow ` r is great , but fully I declare , I do not like advances from the FAIR.
To person_2 this a thunder-clap appeared ; Howe'er , she in her purpose persevered.
Said she , this treatment doubtless I deserve ; person_3 still , from truth my tongue can never swerve , person_4 if I may presume my thoughts to speak , The plan which I 've pursued your love to seek , Had never proved injurious to my cause , If still my beauty merited applause.
From what you 've said , and what your looks express To please your sight , no charms I now possess.
Whence comes this change ? -- to you I will refer ; Till now I was admired , you must aver ; person_4 ev ` ry one my person highly praised ; These precious gifts , that admiration raised , Alas ! are fled , and since I felt LOVE 'S flame , Experience whispers , I 'm no more the same ; No longer have charms that please your eyes : How happy I should feel if they 'd suffice ! THE suppliant belle now hoped to be allowed One half his bed to whom her sighs were vowed ; person_3 terror closed her lips ; she nothing said , Though oft her eyes were to his pillow led.
To be confused the wily stripling feigned , person_4 like a statue for a time remained.
AT length he said : -- I know not what to do ; Undressing , by myself , I ca n't pursue.
Shall I your valet call ? rejoined the fair ; On no account , said he , with looks of care ; I would not have you in my chamber seen , Nor thought that here , by night , a girl had been , Your caution is enough , the belle replied : Myself between the wall and bed I 'll hide , ` Twill what you fear prevent , and ills avoid ; person_3 bolt the door : you 'll then be not annoyed ; Let no one come ; for once I 'll do my best , person_4 as your valet act till you 're undressed ; To am ` rous person_2 this permission grant The honor would her throbbing breast enchant.
THE youth to her proposal gave consent , person_4 instantly to business went ; The means she used to take his clothes were such , That scarcely once his person felt her touch ; She stopt not there , but even freely chose To take from off his feet , both shoes and hose person_0 , say you : -- With her hands did person_2 this ? Pray tell me what you see therein amiss ? I wish sincerely I could do the same , With one for whom I feel a tender flame.
BETWEEN the clothes in haste person_1 flew , Without inviting person_2 to pursue.
She thought at first he meant to try her love ; person_3 raillery , this conduct was above.
His aim , howe'er more fully to unfold , She presently observed : -- ` Tis very cold ; Where shall I sleep ? said she : person_1 Just where you please ; person_2 , on this chair ? person_1 No , no , be more at ease ; Come into bed.
person_2 Unlace me then , I pray.
person_1 I can not : I 'm undressed , and cold as clay : Unlace yourself.
-- Just then the belle perceived A poinard , which anxiety relieved ; She drew it from the scabbard , cut her lace , person_4 many parts of dress designed for grace , The works of months , embroidery and flow ' r Now perished in the sixtieth of an hour , Without regret , or seeming to lament , person_0 more than life will of the sex content.
YE dames of Britain , Germany , or France , Would you have done as much , through complaisance ? You would not , I 'm convinced : the thing is clear ; person_3 doubtless this , at Rome , must fine appear.
POOR person_2 softly to the bed approached , No longer now supposing she encroached , person_4 trusting that , no stratagem again Would be contrived to give her bosom pain.
person_1 said : my sentiments I 'll speak ; Dissimulation I will never seek ; She who can proffer what should be denied , Shall never be admitted by my side ; person_3 if the place your approbation meet , I wo n't refuse your lying at my feet.
FAIR person_2 such reproof could not withstand , 'Twas well the poinard was not in her hand ; Her bosom so severely felt the smart , She would have plunged the dagger through her heart : person_3 Hope , sweet Hope ! still fluttered to her view ; person_4 young person_1 pretty well she knew ; Howe'er with such severity he spoke , That e ` en the mildest saint it would provoke ; Yet , in a swain so easy , gentle , kind , 'Twas strange so little lenity to find.
SHE placed herself , as order 'd , cross the bed , person_4 at his feet at length reclined her head ; A kiss on them she ventured to impress , person_3 not too roughly , lest she should transgress : We may conjecture if he were at ease ; person_0 victory ! to see her stoop to please ; A beauty so renowned for charms and pride , ` Twould take a week , to note each trait described ; No other fault than paleness he could trace , Which gave her -LRB- causes known -RRB- still higher grace.
CAMILLUS stretched his legs , and on her breast Familiarly allowed his feet to rest ; A cushion made of what so fair appeared , That envy might from ivory be feared ; Then seemed as if to Morpheus he inclined , person_4 on the pillow sullenly resigned.
At last the sighs with which her bosom heaved , Gave vent to floods of tears that much relieved ; This was the end : -- person_1 silence broke , person_4 to tell the belle with pleasing accents spoke I 'm satisfied , said he , your love is pure ; Come hither charming girl and be secure.
She t ` wards him moved ; person_1 near her slid ; Could you , cried he , believe that what I did , Was seriously the dictates of my soul , To act the brute and ev ` ry way control ? No , no , sweet fair , you know me not ` tis plain : I truly wish your fondest love to gain ; Your heart I 've probed , ` tis all that I desire ; Mid joys I swim ; my bosom feels the fire.
Your rigor now in turn you may display ; It is but fair : be bountiful I pray ; Myself from hence your lover I declare ; No woman merits more my bed to share , person_0ever rank , or beauty , sense or life , You equally deserve to be my wife ; Your husband I 'll become ; forget the past ; Unpleasant recollections should not last.
Yet there 's one thing which much I wish to speak The marriage must be secret that we seek ; There 's no occasion reasons to disclose ; person_0 I have said I trust will you dispose , To act as I desire : you 'll find it best : -- A wedding 's like amours while unconfessed ; One THEN both husband and gallant appears , person_4 ev ` ry wily act the bosom cheers.
Till we , continued he , a priest can find , Are you , to trust my promises inclined ? You safely may ; he 'll to his word adhere : His heart is honest , and his tongue sincere.
TO this fair person_2 answered not a word , Which showed , with him , her sentiments concurred.
The spark , no novice in the dumb assent , Received her silence fully as 'twas meant ; The rest involved in myst ` ry deep remains ; Thus person_2 was requitted for her pains.
YE Cyprian nymphs to profit turn my tale ; The god of LOVE , within his vot ` ries pale , Has many , if their sentiments were known , That I 'd prefer for Hymen 's joys alone.
My wife , not always to the spindle true , Will many things in life , not seem to view ; By person_2 and her conduct you may see How , with this theory , her acts agree ; She proved the truth of what I here advance , person_4 reaped the fruits produced by complaisance , A horde of nuns I know who , ev ` ry night , Would such adventures wage with fond delight.
PERHAPS it will not be with ease believed , That person_2 from person_1 now received , A proof of LOVE 'S enchanting balmy sweet , A proof perhaps you 'll think her used to meet ; person_3 ne'er till then she tasted pleasures pure ; Her former life no blisses could secure.
You ask the cause , and signs of doubt betray : Who TRULY loves , the same will ever say"
FLORENTINE we now design to show ; -- A greater blockhead ne'er appeared below ; It seems a prudent woman he had wed , With beauty that might grace a monarch 's bed ; person_8ng , brisk , good-humoured , with engaging mien ; person_2ne in the town , or round , the like was seen : Her praises every voice inclined to sing , person_4 judged her worthy of a mighty king ; At least a better husband she deserved : An arrant fool he looked , and quite unnerved.
person_1 Calfucci -LRB- for such his name -RRB- Was fully bent to have a father 's fame , person_4 thought his country honor he could do , Could he contrive his lineage to pursue.
person_2 holy saint in Paradise was blessed , person_3 what this husband fervently addressed ; From day to day , so oft he teazed for grace , They scarcely knew his off ` rings where to place.
person_2 matron , quack , nor conjurer around , person_3 what he tried their qualities profound ; Yet all in vain : in spite of charm or book , person_2 father he , whatever pains he took.
TO Florence then returned a youth from France ; Where he had studied , -- more than complaisance : Well trained as any from that polished court ; person_7 Fortune 's favors anxious to resort ; Gallant and seeking ev ` ry FAIR to please ; Each house , road , alley , soon he knew at ease ; The husbands , good or bad , their whims and years , With ev ` ry thing that moved their hopes or fears ; person_0 sort of fuel best their females charmed ; person_0 spies were kept by those who felt alarmed ; The if 's , for 's , to 's , and ev ` ry artful wile , That might in love a confidant beguile , Or nurse , or father-confessor , or dog ; When passion prompts , few obstacles can clog.
THE snares were spread , each stratagem was laid ; person_4 every thing arranged to furnish aid , When our gay spark determined to invest Old person_5 with the cuckold 's branching crest.
The plan no doubt was well conceived and bold ; The lady to her friends appeared not cold ; Within her husband 's house she seemed polite ; person_3 ne'er familiarly was seen invite , person_2 further could a lover dare proceed ; person_2t one had hope the belle his flame would heed.
OUR youth , Calimachus , no sooner came , person_3 he howe'er appeared to please the dame ; His camp he pitched and entered on the siege Of fair person_9 , faithful to her liege , Who presently the haughty tigress played , person_4 sent him , like the rest , away dismayed.
HE , scarcely knew what saint he could invoke ; When person_5 's folly served him for a cloak ; However strange , no stratagem nor snare , person_3 what the fool would willingly prepare With all his heart , and nothing fancy wrong ; That might to others possibly belong.
The lover and himself , as learned men , Had conversations ev ` ry now and then ; For person_5 was a doctor in the law : Degree , to him , not worth a single straw ; Far better had he common prudence traced ; person_4 not his confidence so badly placed.
ONE day he to Calimachus complained , Of want of heirs , and wished they could be gained : Where lay the fault ? He was a gay gallant ; person_9 young with features to enchant.
When I at Paris was , replied our wight , There passed a clever man , a curious sight , His company with anxious care I sought , person_4 was at length a hundred secrets taught ; ` Mong others how , at will , to get an heir : -- A certain thing , he often would declare ; The great Mogul had tried it on his queen , just two years since , the heir might then be seen ; person_4 many other princesses of fame , Had added by it to their husband 's name.
'Twas very true ; I 've seen it fully proved : The remedy all obstacles removed ; ` person_6 from the root of certain tree expressed ; A juice most potent ev ` ry where confessed , person_4 Mandrake called , which taken by a wife ; More pow ` r evinces o ` er organick life , Than from conventual grace was e ` er derived , Though in the cloister youthful friars hived.
TEN months from hence I 'll you a father make ; person_2 longer time than that I ask to take ; person_1 period o ` er , the child to church we 'll bring , -- If true , said person_5 , what a glorious thing ! person_8 'll do me services I ca n't express.
-- Do n't doubt it , cried the spark of smart address : Must I the fact so oft to you repeat ? I 've seen it with my eyes ; ` tis most complete ; person_8 mean to jest , assuredly my friend ; Would you by doubts the great Mogul offend ? So handsomely this traveller he paid , person_2 sign of discontent he e ` er betrayed.
` TIS excellent , the Florentine replied ; person_9 must be pleased to have it tried ; person_0 satisfaction ! in her arms to view An infant that my lineage will renew.
person_2w , worthy friend , you god-father shall stand ; person_1 very day pray take the thing in hand.
NOT quite so fast , rejoined our smart gallant , First know the plan , before consent you grant ; There is an ill attends the whole affair ; person_3 what below , alas ! is free from care ; person_1 juice , possessing virtues so divine , Has also pow ` rs that prove the most malign : Whoe'er receives the patient 's first embrace ; person_7o fatally the dire effects will trace ; Death oft succeeds the momentary joy ; We scarcely good can find without alloy.
YOUR servant ; sir , said person_5 with surprise ; person_2 more of this : the name will me suffice ; person_9 we will let remain at ease : person_0 you propose can never truly please ; If I must die by getting of a son , ` person_6 better far the benefit to shun ; Go find some other for your wondrous art ; person_10 fact I 'm not inclined with life to part.
HOW strange your conduct , cried the sprightly youth : Extremes you seek , and overleap the truth ; Just now the fond desire to have a boy Chased ev ` ry care and filled your heart with joy ; At present quite the contrary appears A moment changed your fondest hopes to fears ; Come , hear the rest ; no longer waste your breath : Kind Nature all can cure , excepting death.
person_0 's necessary pray , that things succeed ? Some youthful clod for once should take the lead , person_4 clear the way of ev ` ry venom round Then you with safety may commence to sound ; person_2 time you 'll lose , but instantly begin person_4 you 'll most certainly your object win.
person_1 step is necessary to the end ; Some lad of little worth I recommend ; person_3 not ill made , nor savagely robust , person_7 give your lady terror nor disgust.
We know that , used to person_5 's soft caress , person_9 would disrelish rude address ; person_10deed ` tis possible in such event , Her tender heart would never give consent ; person_1 led me to propose a man that 's young ; Besides , the more he proves for action strong , The less of venom will behind remain , person_4 I 'll engage that ev ` ry drop he 'll drain.
AT first the husband disapproved the plan , The infamy , and danger which they ran Perhaps the magistrate might have him sought , person_4 he , of murder , guilty might be thought ; The sudden death would mightily perplex ; A fellow 's creature 's loss would sorely vex ; person_9 , who 'd withstood each tempter 's charms , Was now to be disgraced in rustick arms ! CALIMACHUS , with eagerness replied ; I would a man of consequence provide , Or one , at all events , whose anxious aim Would be , aloud the myst ` ry , to proclaim ! person_3 fear and folly would contain the clown , Or money at the worst would stop renown , person_8r better half apparently resigned ; The clod without intention of the kind ; person_10 short whate'er arrived , ` tis clear your case Could not with Cuckoldom be well in place.
Besides ` tis no way certain but our blade , By strength of nerves the poison may evade ; person_4 that 's a double reason for the choice , Since with more certainty we shall rejoice : The venom may evaporate in fume , person_4 Mandrake pleasing pow ` rs at once assume ; For when I spoke of death , I did not mean , That nothing from it would the person screen ; person_7-morrow we the rustick lad must name ; person_7-night the potion given your charming dame ; I 've some already with me , all prepared ; Let nothing of your project be declared : person_8 should not seem to know what we 've designed ; Ligurio you 'll permit this clod to find ; person_8 can most thoroughly in him confide : Discretion , secrecy , with him reside.
One thing , however , nearly I 'd forgot ; A bandage for the eyes we should allot ; person_4 when well bound he nothing e ` er can trace Of whom , or what , the lady , or the place.
THE whole arrangement person_5 much approved ; person_3 now 'twas time the lady should be moved.
At first she thought it jest , then angry grew , person_4 vowed the plan she never would pursue ; Her life she 'd rather forfeit than her name : Once known , for ever lost would be her fame Besides the heinous sin and vile offence , God knew she rather would with all dispense ; Mere complaisance had led her to comply ; Would she admit a wretch with blearing eye , person_7 incommode , and banish tranquil ease ? Who could conceive her formed a clod to please ? Can I , said she , the paths of honor quit , person_4 in my bed a loathsome brute permit ? Or e ` er regard the plan but with disdain ? person_2 , by saint John , I ever will maintain , person_2r beau , nor clown , nor king , nor lord , nor ` squire , Save person_5 , with me freely shall retire.
THE fair person_9 seemed so firmly bent , person_7 father Timothy at length they went , Who preached the lady such a fine discourse , She ceded more through penitence than force.
MOREOVER she was promised that the lad Should be nor clownish , nor in person bad ; person_2r such as any way might give disgust , person_3 one to whom she perfectly might trust.
THE wondrous draught was taken by the fair ; Next day our Wight prepared his wily snare : Himself bepowdered like a miller 's man , With beard and whiskers to complete his plan ; A better metamorphose ne'er was seen ; Ligurio , who had in the secret been , So thoroughly disguised the lover thought , At midnight him to person_5 freely brought , With bandage o ` er the eyes and hair disdained , person_2t once the husband of deceit complained.
BESIDE the dame in silence slid our spark ; person_10 silence she attended in the dark , Perfumed and nicely ev ` ry way bedecked ; For what ? you ask , or whom did she expect ; Were all these pains a miller to receive ? -- person_7o much they can not take , the sex believe ; person_4 whether kings or millers be their aim , The wish to please is ever found the same.
` person_6 double honor in a woman thought , When by her charms a torpid heart is caught ; She , who in icy bosoms flame can raise , Deserving doubtless is of treble praise.
THE spark disguised , his place no sooner took , person_3 awkwardness he presently forsook ; person_2 more the miller , but the smart gallant : The lady found him kind and complaisant ; Such moments we 'll suppose were well employed ; Though trembling fears not perfectly destroyed.
SHE , to herself , remarked , ` tis very strange , person_1 lad 's demeanor should so quickly change ; He 's quite another character , ` tis clear ; person_0 pity that his end should be so near ; Alas ! he merits not so hard a fate ; I feel regret the lot should him await ; person_4 while soft pleasure seems his heart 's delight ; His soul is doomed from hence to take its flight.
THE husband who so fully gave consent , Was led his partner 's suff ` rings to lament The spirit of a queen in truth she showed , When cuckoldom was on her spouse bestowed ; person_10 decoration , forced to acquiesce , She would not condescend to join caress.
LUCRETIA howsoe'er the lad approved ; His winning manners much her favor moved.
WHEN he the subtle venom had subdued , He took her hand , and having fondly sued , Said he , your pardon lady now I ask ; Be not displeased when I remove the mask ; person_8r rage restrain ; a trick on you 's been played ; Calimachus am I ; be not dismayed ; Approve my sacrifice ; the secret 's known ; person_8r rigor would be useless now if shown ; Should I be doomed howe'er to breathe my last , I die content , rememb ` ring what has passed ; person_8 have the means my life at will to take ; More havock with me soft delight could make , Than any poison that the draught possessed ; Mere folly , imposition , all the rest.
TILL then person_9 had resistance made ; person_7 seem submissive she was still afraid ; The lover was not hated by the belle , person_3 bashfulness she could not well dispel , Which , joined to simple manners mixed with fear , Ungrateful made her , spite of self , appear.
IN silence wrapt , and scarcely drawing breath , By passion moved , and yet ashamed to death , person_2t knowing how to act , so great her grief , From tears , her throbbing bosom sought relief.
Look , could she e ` er her lover in the face ? Will he not think me covered with disgrace ? Said she , within herself ; -- what else believe ? My wits were lost to let him thus deceive.
O'ercome by sorrow , then she turned her head , person_4 tried to hide herself within the bed , At furthest end , but vain alas her aim , The lover thither in a moment came : Her only ground , remaining unsubdued , Surrendered when the vanquisher pursued , Who every thing submitted to his will , person_4 tears no more her eyes were found to fill ; Shame took to flight , and scruples spread the wing ; How happy those whom duping GAIN can bring ! TOO soon Aurora for our spark appeared ; person_7o soon for her so thoroughly revered ; Said he , the poison , that can life devour , Requires repeated acts to crush its pow ` r.
The foll ` wing days our youthful am ` rous pair Found opportunities for pleasing fare.
The husband scarcely could himself contain , So anxiously he wished his aim to gain.
THE lover from the belle at length arose , person_4 hastened to his house to seek repose ; person_3 scarcely had he placed himself in bed , When our good husband 's footsteps thither led ; He , to the spark , related with delight , How mandrake-juice succeeded in the night.
Said he , at first beside the bed I crept , person_4 listened if the miller near her kept , Or whether he to converse was inclined , person_4 ev ` ry way to act as was designed.
I then my wife was anxious to address , person_4 whispered that she should the youth caress ; person_2r dread too much the spoiling of her charms : person_10deed 'twas all embarrassing alarms.
Do n't think , said I , that either can deceive ; I ev ` ry thing shall hear , you may believe ; Know , person_5 is a man , who well may say , He 's trusted without measure ev ` ry day.
PRAY recollect my very life 's at stake , person_4 do not many difficulties make.
Convince thereby how much your spouse you love ; ` Twill pleasure doubtless give the pow ` rs above.
person_3 should the blockhead any how prove shy Send instantly to me ; I shall be nigh ; I 'm going now to rest ; by no means fail ; We 'll soon contrive and ev ` ry way prevail.
person_3 there was no necessity for this ; ` person_6 pretty clear that nothing went amiss.
person_10 fact the rustick liked the business well , person_4 seemed unwilling to resign the belle , I pity him , and much lament his lot ; person_3 -- he must die and soon will be forgot : A fig for those who used to crack their jest ; person_10 nine months ' time a child will be the test"
by La Fontaine IN Eastern climes , by means considered new ; The Mount 's old-man , with terrors would pursue ; His large domains howe'er were not the cause , person_3r heaps of gold , that gave him such applause , But manners strange his subjects to persuade ; person_5 ev ` ry wish , to serve him they were made.
Among his people boldest hearts he chose , person_6 to their view would Paradise disclose Its blissful pleasures : -- ev ` ry soft delight , Designed to gratify the sense and sight.
So plausible this prophet 's tale appeared , Each word he dropt was thoroughly revered.
person_1ce this delusion ? -- DRINK deranged the mind ; person_6 , reason drowned , to madness they resigned.
Thus void of knowing clearly what they did , They soon were brought to act as they were bid ; Conveyed to places , charming to the eye , Enchanting gardens ` neath an azure sky , With twining shrubs , meandring walks , and flow ` rs , person_6 num ` rous grottos , porticoes and bow ` rs.
person_1 they chanced to pass where all was gay , From wine 's inebriating pow ` rful sway , They wondered at the frolicking around , person_6 fancied they were got on fairy ground , Which Mahomet pretended was assigned , For those to his doctrine were inclined.
To tempt the men and girls to seek the scene , person_6 skip and play and dance upon the green , To murm ` ring streams , meandering along , person_6 lutes ' soft notes and nightingales ' sweet song : person_3 earthly pleasure but might there be viewed , The best of wines and choicest fruits accrued , To render sense bewildered at the sight , person_6 sink inebriated with delight.
THEN back they bore them motionless to sleep , person_6 wake with wishes further joys to reap.
From these enjoyments many fully thought , To such enchanting scenes they should be brought , person_5 future times , eternal bliss to taste , If death and danger valiantly they faced , person_6 tried the prophet Mahomet to please , person_6 ev ` ry point to serve their prince would seize.
THE Mount 's old man , by means like these , could say ; person_4 'd men devoted to support his sway ; Upon the globe no empire more was feared , Or king or potentate like him revered.
These circumstances I 've minutely told , To show , our tale was known in days of old.
FERONDE , a rich , but awkward , vulgar clown , A ninny was believed throughout the town ; person_4 had the charge of revenues not slight , Which he collected for a friar white.
Of these I 've known as good as any black , person_1 husbands some assistance seemed to lack , person_6 had so much to do , they monks might need ; Or other friends , their work at home to speed.
This friar for to-morrow never thought , But squandered ev ` ry thing as soon as brought ; person_3 saint-apostle less of wealth retained ; Good cheer o ` er ev ` ry wish triumphant reigned , Save now and then to have a little fun , -LRB- Unknown to others -RRB- with a pretty nun.
FERONDE had got a spouse of pleasing sight , Related nearly to our friar white , Whose predecessor , uncle , sponsor kind , person_3w gone to realms of night , had her consigned , To be this silly blockhead 's lawful wife , Who thought her hand the honor of his life.
` person_2 said that bastard-daughters oft retain A disposition to the parent-train ; person_6 this , the saying , truly ne'er bellied , person_3r was her spouse so weak but he descried , Things clearer than was requisite believed , person_6 doubted much if he were not deceived.
THE wife would often to the prelate go , Pretending business , proper he should know ; A thousand circumstances she could find ; 'Twas then accounts : now sev ` ral things combined ; person_5 short no day nor hour within the week , But something at the friar 's she would seek.
The holy father then was always prone , To send the servants off and be alone.
Howe'er the husband , doubting tricks were played ; Got troublesome ; his wife would much upbraid person_1 she returned , and often beat her too ; person_5 short , -- he unaccommodating grew.
THE rural mind by nature jealous proves ; Suspicion shows of ev ` ry thing that moves ; Unused to city ways , perverse appears , person_6 , undismayed , to principle adheres : THE friar found his situation hard ; person_4 loved his ease ? -- all trouble would discard ; As priests in gen ` ral anxiously desire ; Their plan howe'er I never can admire , person_6 should not choose at once to take the town , But by the escalade obtain the crown ; person_5 LOVE I mean ; to WAR I do n't allude : person_3 silly bragging I would here intrude , person_3r be enrolled among the martial train : ` person_2 Venus ' court that I should like to gain.
Let t ` other custom be the better way : It matters not ; no longer I 'll delay , But to my tale return , and fully state , How our receiver , who misused his mate ; Was put in purgatory to be cured , person_6 , for a time , most thoroughly immured.
BY means of opiate powders , much renowned , The friar plunged him in a sleep profound.
Thought dead ; the fun ` ral obsequies achieved , person_4 was surprised , and doubtless sorely grieved , person_1 he awoke and saw where he was placed , With folks around , not much to suit his taste ; For in the coffin he at large was left , person_6 of the pow ` r to move was not bereft , But might arise and walk about the tomb , Which opened to another vaulted room , The gloomy , hollow mansion of the dead : Fear quickly o ` er his drooping spirits spread.
What 's here ? cried he : is ` t sleep , or is it death ; Some charm or spell perhaps withdraws their breath.
Our wight then asked their names and business there ; person_6 why he was retained in such a snare ? person_5 what had he offended God or man ? -- person_0 one , console thyself : -- past moments scan ; person_1 thou hast rested here a thousand years , Thou ` lt then ascend amid the person_4av ` nly spheres ; But first in holy purgatory learn , To cleanse thyself from sins that we discern ; One day thy soul shall leave this loathsome place , person_6 , pure as ice , repair to realms of grace.
Then this consoling person_7 gave a thwack , person_6 ten or dozen stripes laid on his back : -- ` person_2 thy unruly , jealous mind , said he , Displeases God , and dooms thee here to be.
A MOURNFUL sigh the lorn receiver heaved , His aching shoulders rubbed , and sobbed and grieved ; A thousand years , cried he , ` tis long indeed ! My very soul with horror seems to bleed.
WE should observe , this person_7 was a wag , A novice-friar and a convent fag ; Like him the others round had parts to act , person_6 were disguised in dresses quite exact.
Our penitent most humbly pardon sought ; person_0 he , if e ` er to life again I 'm brought , person_3 jealousy , suspicion 's hateful bane , Shall ever enter my distracted brain.
May I not have this grace , this wished for boon ? Some hopes they gave , but it could not be soon ; person_5 short a year he lay upon the floor : Just food for life received , and nothing more , Each day on bread and water he was fed , person_6 o ` er his back the cat-o ` nine-tails spread : Full twenty lashes were the number set , Unless the friar should from person_4av ` n first get Permission to remit at times a part , For charity was glowing in his heart.
WE , must not doubt , he often offered prayers , To ease the culprit 's sufferings and cares.
The person_7 likewise made a long discourse ; person_0 he , those vile suspicions were the source , Of all thy sorrow , wretchedness , and pain : Think ` st thou such thoughts the clergy entertain ? A friar white ! -- too bad in ev ` ry sense : Ten strokes to one , if black , for such offence.
Repent , I say : -- the other this desired , Though scarcely he could tell what was required.
MEANWHILE the prelate with the fav ` rite dame , person_3 time to lose , made ev ` ry hour the same.
The husband , with a sigh , was heard to say : I wonder what my wife 's about to-day ? About ? -- whate'er it be ` tis doubtless right ; Our friar , to console her , takes delight ; Thy business too is managed as before , person_6 anxious care bestowed upon thy store.
HAS she as usual matters that demand Attendance at the cloister to be scanned ? -- person_3 doubt was the reply , for having now The whole affair upon her feeble brow , Poor woman ! be her wishes what they will , She more assistance wants thy loss to fill.
DISCOURSE like this no pleasure gave the soul : To call him so seems best upon the whole , Since he 'd not pow ` r like others here to feed : -- Mere earthly shadow for a time decreed.
A MONTH was passed in fasting , pains , and prayer ; Some charity the friar made him share , person_6 now and then remission would direct ; The widow too he never would neglect , But , all the consolation in his pow ` r , Bestowed upon her ev ` ry leisure hour , His tender cares unfruitful were not long ; Beyond his hopes the soil proved good and strong ; person_5 short our Pater Abbas justly feared , To make him father many signs appeared.
SINCE ` twere improper such a fact were known ; person_1 proofs perhaps too clearly might be shown , So many prayers were said and vigils kept , At length the soul from purgatory crept , So much reduced , and ev ` ry way so thin But little more he seemed than bones and skin.
A THING so strange filled numbers with surprise , Who scarcely would believe their ears and eyes.
The friar passed for saint : -- Feronde his fruit ; person_3ne durst presume to doubt nor to dispute ; A double miracle at once appeared The dead 's return : the lady 's state revered.
With treble force Te Deum round was sung ; Sterility in marriage oft was rung , person_6 near the convent many offered prayers , person_5 hopes their fervent vows would gain them heirs.
THE humble spouse and wife we now shall leave Let none , howe'er , suppose that we conceive , Each husband merits , as our soul , the same , To cure the jealous fears his breast inflame"
TO charms and philters , secret spells and prayers , How many round attribute all their cares ! In these howe'er I never can believe , person_2 laugh at follies that so much deceive.
Yet with the beauteous FAIR , ` tis very true , These WORDS , as SACRED VIRTUES , oft they view ; The spell and philter wonders work in love Hearts melt with charms supposed from pow ` rs above ! MY aim is now to have recourse to these , person_2 give a story that I trust will please , In which Saint Julian 's prayer , to person_3 D'Ast , Produced a benefit , good fortune classed.
Had he neglected to repeat the charm , Believed so thoroughly to guard from harm , He would have found his cash accounts not right , person_2 passed assuredly a wretched night.
ONE day , to William 's castle as he moved.
Three men , whose looks he very much approved , person_2 thought such honest fellows he had round , Their like could nowhere be discovered round ; Without suspecting any thing was wrong , The three , with complaisance and fluent tongue , Saluted him in humble servile style , person_2 asked , -LRB- the minutes better to beguile , -RRB- If they might bear him company the way ; The honor would be great , and no delay ; Besides , in traveling ` tis safer found , person_2 far more pleasant , when the party 's round ; So many robbers through the province range , -LRB- Continued they -RRB- ` tis wonderfully strange , The prince should not these villains more restrain ; person_1 there : -- bad MEN will somewhere still remain.
TO their proposal person_3 soon agreed , person_2 they resolved together to proceed.
When ` bout a league the travellers had moved , Discussing freely , as they all approved , The conversation turned on spells and prayer , Their pow ` r o ` er worms of earth , or birds of air ; person_0 charm the wolf , or guard from thunder 's roar , person_2 many wonderful achievements more ; Besides the cures a prayer would oft produce ; person_0 man and beast it proves of sov ` reign use , Far greater than from doctors e ` er you 'll view , Who , with their Latin , make so much ado.
IN turn , the three pretended knowledge great , person_2 mystick facts affected to relate , While person_3 silently attention paid person_0 all the words the honest fellows said : -- Possess you not , said one , some secret prayer person_0 bring you aid , when dangers round you stare ? person_0 this our person_3 seriously replied , Myself , on secret spells , I do not pride ; person_1 still some WORDS I have that I repeat , Each morn I travel , that I may not meet A horrid lodging where I stop at night ; ` Tis called SAINT JULIAN 'S PRAYER that I recite , person_2 truly I have found , that when I fail person_0 say this prayer , I 've reason to bewail.
person_1 rarely I neglect so good a thing , That ills averts , and may such blessings bring.
person_2 have you clearly said it , sir , to day ? Cried one of those he met upon his way.
Yes , person_3 answered.
Well , replied the Wight ; I 'll wage , I 'm better lodged than you to-night.
'TWAS very cold , and darkness ` gan to peep ; The place was distant yet , where they might sleep.
Perhaps , said person_3 , ` tis your usual care , In traveling , to say , like me , this prayer.
Not so , the other cried , to you I vow , Invoking saints is not my practice now ; person_1 should I lose , thenceforth I 'll them address.
-- Said person_3 , readily I acquiesce ; My life I 'd venture , should you to an inn , For , in the town , I 've neither friend nor kin , person_2 , if you like , we 'll this exception make.
The other answered : Well , the bet I 'll take ; Your horse and coat against my purse you wage , person_2 , sure of gaining , readily engage.
Our Wight might then have thoroughly perceived , His horse was lost -- no chance to be relieved.
BESIDE a wood , as on the party moved , The one , who betting had so much approved , Now changed his tone , and in a surly way , Exclaimed : -- Alight -- you 'll find it time to pray ; Let me apprize you , distant is the place , person_2 much you 'll need Saint Julian 's special grace.
Come off , I tell you : -- instantly they took His purse , horse , clothes , and all their hands could hook E ` en seized his boots , and said with subtle sneer , Your feet , by walking , wo n't the worse appear ; Then sought a diff ` rent road by rapid flight , person_2 , presently the knaves were out of sight ; While person_3 still with stockings , drawers , and shirt , person_1 wet to skin , and covered o ` er with dirt : -LRB- The wind north-east in front -- as cold as clay ; -RRB- In doleful dumps proceeded on his way , person_2 justly feared , that spite of faith and prayer , He now should meet , at night , with wretched fare.
HOWEVER , some pleasing hopes he still had yet , That , from his cloak-bag , he some clothes might get ; For , we should note , a servant he had brought , Who in the neighborhood a farrier sought.
person_0 set a shoe upon his horse , and then Should join his master on the road agen ; person_1 that , as we shall find , was not the case , person_2 's dire misfortune thence we trace.
In fact , the fellow , worthless we 'll suppose , Had viewed from far what accidents arose , Then turned aside , his safety to secure , person_2 left his master dangers to endure ; So steadily be kept upon the trot , person_0 Castle-William , ere 'twas night , he got , person_2 took the inn which had the most renown ; For fare and furniture within the town , There waited person_3 's coming at his ease , With fire and cheer that could not fail to please.
His master , up to neck in dirt and wet , Had num ` rous difficulties o ` er to get ; person_2 when the snow , in flakes obscured the air , With piercing cold and winds , he felt despair ; Such ills he bore , that hanging might be thought A bed of roses rather to be sought.
CHANCE so arranges ev ` ry thing around ALL good , or ALL that 's bad is solely found ; When favors flow the numbers are so great , That ev ` ry wish upon us seems to wait ; person_1 , if disposed , misfortunes to bestow ; No ills forgot : each poignant pang we know.
In proof , attend my friends , this very night , The sad adventures that befell our wight , Who , Castle-William did not reach till late , When they , an hour or more , had shut the gate.
AT length our traveller approached the wall , person_2 , somehow to the foot contrived to crawl ; A roofed projection fortune led him near , That joined a house , and ` gan his heart to cheer.
Delighted with the change he now had got , He placed himself upon the sheltered spot ; A lucky hit but seldom comes alone ; Some straw , by chance , was near the mansion thrown , Which person_3 ` neath the jutting penthouse placed There , God be praised , cried he , a bed I 've traced.
MEANWHILE , the storm from ev ` ry quarter pressed ; Our traveller was soon to death distressed ; With cold benumbed ; by fell despair o ` erspread ; He trembled , groaned : -- teeth chattered in his head ; So loud his plaints , at length they reached the ear Of one who dwelled within the mansion near : A servant girl ; her mistress brisk and gay : A youthful widow , charming as the day ; The governor she privately received : A noble marquis , who her cares relieved.
Oft interrupted when he sought the fair , person_2 wished at ease her company to share ; Desirous too of passing quite unknown , A private door he presently was shown , That opened to the fields , and gave access : Through this he visited with such address , That none within the town his commerce viewed , Nor e ` en a servant 's eye his course pursued.
Surprise I feel , since pleasures of the mind , Apparently were not for lords designed ; More pleased they seem when made the talk around person_2 soft amours divulged , delights are found.
IT happened that the night our Job arrived , person_2 , stretched on straw , misfortune just survived , The lady thought her fond gallant to see , person_2 ev ` ry moment hoped with him to be.
The supper ready , and the room prepared , Each rarity was served : no trouble spared ; Baths , perfumes , wines , most exquisite , in place , person_2 ev ` ry thing around displaying grace , With Cupid 's whole artillery in view , Not his , who would with sighs alone pursue , person_1 that kind god who always favor shows , The source of happiness , whence pleasure flows.
MEANWHILE , however , while thus the lady sought.
By ev ` ry charm to please , a note was brought ; A page conveyed it , by the marquis sent , person_0 say his coming business would prevent.
The disappointment doubtless was severe , person_1 consolation certainly was near ; It proved to person_3 wonderfully kind , For scarcely had our traveller resigned , person_2 groaned aloud , but , tender as her dame , In haste the confidential servant came , person_2 to the widow said : -- I hear below Some poor unfortunate o ` ercome with woe ; ` Tis piercing cold , and he perhaps will die Some place , pray grant , where he to-night may lie.
MOST readily , replied the courteous fair , We never use the garret : -- lodge him there ; Some straw upon a couch will make a bed , On which the wand ` rer may repose his head ; Shut well the door , but first provide some meat , person_2 then permit him thither to retreat.
WITHOUT this timely help 'twas clear our wight Had ne'er survived the horrors of the night ; The door was ope 'd , and person_3 blessed the hand That gave relief , and stopt life 's ebbing sand.
His tale he told ; got spirits , strength , and ease ; In person tall , well made , and formed to please , He looked not like a novice in amour , Though young , and seeking shelter at a door.
His want of dress and miserable state Raised shame indeed , and showed distress was great.
Though LOVE be seen in Nature 's pure array , No dirt appears , however you survey.
THIS servant girl now hastened to the fair , person_2 ev ` ry circumstance detailed with care.
See , said the lady , if within the press There be not clothes to furnish him a dress ; My husband , now no more , must some have left ; Yes , said the girl , you 're not of them bereft , I recollect his wardrobe did abound ; person_2 presently a handsome suit she found.
MEANWHILE the lady having learned the name Of person_3 D'Ast , his quality and fame , -LRB- Himself it seems particulars detailed , While all around his suff ` rings keen bewailed , -RRB- Her orders gave , the bath for her prepared Should now receive the man her care had spared.
Unasked , the stranger this attention got , person_2 well perfumed ere clothes they would allot.
When dressed , he waited on the widow fair , person_2 paid his compliments with graceful air.
THE supper -LRB- for the marquis first designed -RRB- At length was served with taste the most refined.
Our trav ` ller glad , an appetite displayed ; The lady carefully her guest surveyed , person_2 anxious seemed to gratify his wish , By helping what appeared his favorite dish.
Already , perhaps , she felt a Cupid 's dart , person_2 in her throbbing bosom knew the smart ; Or sympathy , or pity for his woes , Might touch the spring whence softest passion flows.
On ev ` ry side assailed the youthful dame Herself surrendered unto Cupid 's flame.
Should I give way , said she , who 'll tell the tale ? No risk is run if secrecy prevail.
The marquis merits to be played the trick ; He no excuse can have , unless he 's sick.
One sin against another I may weigh , person_2 man for man will equally repay.
SO inexperienced person_3 was not found , person_1 that he saw how things were going round , person_2 , that Saint Julian 's Prayer would yet succeed , person_0 give him all the lodging he might need.
THE supper o ` er , our couple left alone , What fairer field could truly have been shown ? The belle now wore a smart becoming dress , Designed , in ev ` ry view , to prepossess.
'Twas NEGLIGENCE , so requisite to please person_2 fascinate , with airy , careless ease , According to the taste which I pursue , That made her charms so exquisite to view.
No gaudy tinsel : all was flowing light ; Though not superb , yet pleasing to the sight ; A neckerchief , where much should be concealed , Was made so narrow , -- beauties half revealed ; Beneath is shade -- what words can ne'er express ; person_2 saw enough the rest to guess.
No more I say ; the belle indeed was fair , Possessed of youth and all engaging air ; Tall , nicely formed ; each grace , that hearts could win ; Not much of fat , nor yet appeared too thin.
Emotion , at the view , who would not feel ? person_0 soft delight what bosom proves of steel ? No marble bust , philosopher , nor stone , person_1 similar sensation would have shown.
THE silence first was broken by the dame ; Who spoke so freely , person_3 bolder came.
He knew not well , howe'er , discourse to find ; person_0 help him out the widow was inclined ; Said she , you much remind me of a friend , Whose ev ` ry wish I sought with mine to blend My husband -LRB- rest his soul ! -RRB- had just those eyes , That look , air , mouth : -- the very height and size : You greatly honor me , the spark replied : Your charms howe'er might well have been his pride ; I ne'er beheld such soft engaging mien : On earth , like beauty never yet was seen.
person_1 , in extremes to be , appears my lot ; Just now I felt quite chilled : -- at present hot ; Pray tell me which is best ? The fair looked down , person_2 humbly seemed to wave the proffered crown , That she might still more flattery receive Address not small , if we 'll our eyes believe.
The swain now praised each charm within his view , person_2 whatsoe'er his wishes could pursue ; Where hope was strong , and expectation high , She would not long be cruel and deny.
person_0 give the praise , your due , the lover cried , person_2 note the beauties that my heart divide , ` Twould take an age , and I 've a single night , Which surely might be passed with more delight.
The widow smiled ; enough it seems was said ; person_2 shortened -- what to nothing led.
In war or love , time equally is dear ; More happy than our spark none could appear ; No point but what he gained ; the smiling dame Resistance only showed to raise the flame ; Nor more nor less ; each belle like art has got , person_2 practises at will , or maid or not.
BUT truly , it was never my intent person_0 count each favor she to person_3 lent ; Particulars exact of ev ` ry kiss , person_2 all the preludes incident to bliss ; Both , doubtless , knew more ways than one to please ; person_2 sought , with anxious care , love 's charms to seize.
On recollection of the wretched state In which our traveller had moved of late , Some favor was bestowed : -- there , cried the dame , Is something to repay the road you came ; This for the cold ; that fear ; there thieves disgraced ; So , one by one , the whole was soon effaced.
In this way to be paid for ills we meet , Who 'd not be satisfied with boons so sweet ? person_2 we conclude , that person_3 on the spot , Love 's am ` rous recompense of pleasures got.
Now easy conversation was renewed ; Then mutual kisses ; ev ` ry sweet pursued.
'Twas time for bed ; howe'er , the widow fair Determined that her own the spark should share ; 'Twas prudent , doubtless ; like a lady wise ; Gallantly done : one room would well suffice.
WHAT further passed betwixt the pair that night ; I can not say , though we 'll believe 'twas right ; Between the clothes when laid , and unrestrained , Most clearly , person_3 all his wishes gained.
There he was recompensed for ev ` ry grief ; The lady too , received so much relief , That she desired his company again , person_1 still these visits secrets should remain ; 'Twas requisite the governor to see ; Howe'er the dame delighted seemed to be , person_2 not content with what she had bestowed , A purse well stored with gold to person_3 showed : He took no more , indeed , than what would pay The bare expenses on his homeward way ; Then sought the street that to the tavern led , Where still his lazy servant was in bed ; The fellow mauled ; then changed throughout his dress ; Since to the cloak-bag now he had access.
His fortune to complete , that day they took The very wretches that he wished to hook.
He to the judge repaired with ev ` ry haste ; In such a case you never time should waste ; For , once the things are into court received , ` Tis like the lion 's den : naught e ` er 's retrieved ; Their hands are closed , not ` gainst what may be brought person_1 to secure what from their grasp is sought.
Who seeks redress by law , facts oft have shown , May bless his stars if he but keep his own.
THE trial o ` er , a gallows treble-faced , Was , for their swinging , in the market placed , ONE of the three harangued the mob around , -LRB- His speech was for the others also found -RRB- Then , ` bout their necks the halters being tied , Repentant and confessed the culprits died.
WHO , after this , will doubt the pow ` r of prayers ? These silly knaves had banished all their cares ; person_2 when at ease they thought to skip and prance , Were seized and quickly taught another dance.
On t ` other hand , where dire distress prevailed , person_2 death , in various ways , our spark assailed , A beauty suddenly his senses charmed , Who might a prelate 's bosom have alarmed.
So truly fortunate , indeed , his lot , Again his money , baggage , horse he got ; person_2 , thank Saint Julian , howsoever tossed , He passed a blissful night that nothing cost"
There was once upon a time a very old woman , who lived with he flock of geese in a waste place among the mountains , and there had a little house.
The waste was surrounded by a large forest , and every morning the old woman took her crutch and hobbled into it.
There , however , the dame was quite active , more so than any one would have thought , considering her age , and collected grass for her geese , picked all the wild fruit she could reach , and carried everything home on her back.
Any one would have thought that the heavy load would have weighed her to the ground , but she always brought it safely home.
If any one met her , she greeted him quite courteously.
`` Good day , dear countryman , it is a fine day.
Ah ! you wonder that I should drag grass about , but every one must take his burthen on his back"
Nevertheless , people did not like to meet her if they could help it , and took by preference a round-about way , and when a father with his boys passed her , he whispered to them , `` Beware of the old woman.
She has claws beneath her gloves ; she is a witch"
One morning , a handsome young man was going through the forest.
The sun shone bright , the birds sang , a cool breeze crept through the leaves , and he was full of joy and gladness.
He had as yet met no one , when he suddenly perceived the old witch kneeling on the ground cutting grass with a sickle.
She had already thrust a whole load into her cloth , and near it stood two baskets , which were filled with wild apples and pears.
`` But , good little mother ,"
said he , `` how canst thou carry all that away ?"
`` I must carry it , dear sir ,"
answered she , `` rich folk 's children have no need to do such things , but with the peasant folk the saying goes , do n't look behind you , you will only see how crooked your back is !"
`` Will you help me ?"
she said , as he remained standing by her.
`` You have still a straight back and young legs , it would be a trifle to you.
Besides , my house is not so very far from here , it stands there on the heath behind the hill.
How soon you would bound up thither"
The young man took compassion on the old woman.
`` My father is certainly no peasant ,"
replied he , `` but a rich count ; nevertheless , that you may see that it is not only peasants who can carry things , I will take your bundle"
`` If you will try it ,"
said she , `` I shall be very glad.
You will certainly have to walk for an hour , but what will that signify to you ; only you must carry the apples and pears as well ?"
It now seemed to the young man just a little serious , when he heard of an hour 's walk , but the old woman would not let him off , packed the bundle on his back , and hung the two baskets on his arm.
`` See , it is quite light ,"
said she.
`` No , it is not light ,"
answered the count , and pulled a rueful face.
`` Verily , the bundle weighs as heavily as if it were full of cobble stones , and the apples and pears are as heavy as lead ! I can scarcely breathe"
He had a mind to put everything down again , but the old woman would not allow it.
`` Just look ,"
said she mockingly , `` the young gentleman will not carry what I , an old woman , have so often dragged along.
You are ready with fine words , but when it comes to be earnest , you want to take to your heels.
Why are you standing loitering there ?"
she continued.
`` Step out.
No one will take the bundle off again"
As long as he walked on level ground , it was still bearable , but when they came to the hill and had to climb , and the stones rolled down under his feet as if they were alive , it was beyond his strength.
The drops of perspiration stood on his forehead , and ran , hot and cold , down his back.
`` Dame ,"
said he , `` I can go no farther.
I want to rest a little"
`` Not here ,"
answered the old woman , `` when we have arrived at our journey 's end , you can rest ; but now you must go forward.
Who knows what good it may do you ?"
`` Old woman , thou art becoming shameless !"
said the count , and tried to throw off the bundle , but he labored in vain ; it stuck as fast to his back as if it grew there.
He turned and twisted , but he could not get rid of it.
The old woman laughed at this , and sprang about quite delighted on her crutch.
`` Do n't get angry , dear sir ,"
said she , `` you are growing as red in the face as a turkey-cock ! Carry your bundle patiently.
I will give you a good present when we get home"
What could he do ? He was obliged to submit to his fate , and crawl along patiently behind the old woman.
She seemed to grow more and more nimble , and his burden still heavier.
All at once she made a spring , jumped on to the bundle and seated herself on the top of it ; and however withered she might be , she was yet heavier than the stoutest country lass.
The youth 's knees trembled , but when he did not go on , the old woman hit him about the legs with a switch and with stinging-nettles.
Groaning continually , he climbed the mountain , and at length reached the old woman 's house , when he was just about to drop.
When the geese perceived the old woman , they flapped their wings , stretched out their necks , ran to meet her , cackling all the while.
Behind the flock walked , stick in hand , an old wench , strong and big , but ugly as night.
`` Good mother ,"
said she to the old woman , `` has anything happened to you , you have stayed away so long ?"
`` By no means , my dear daughter ,"
answered she , `` I have met with nothing bad , but , on the contrary , with this kind gentleman , who has carried my burthen for me ; only think , he even took me on his back when I was tired.
The way , too , has not seemed long to us ; we have been merry , and have been cracking jokes with each other all the time"
At last the old woman slid down , took the bundle off the young man 's back , and the baskets from his arm , looked at him quite kindly , and said , `` Now seat yourself on the bench before the door , and rest.
You have fairly earned your wages , and they shall not be wanting"
Then she said to the goose - girl , `` Go into the house , my dear daughter , it is not becoming for thee to be alone with a young gentleman ; one must not pour oil on to the fire , he might fall in love with thee"
The count knew not whether to laugh or to cry.
`` Such a sweetheart as that ,"
thought he , `` could not touch my heart , even if she were thirty years younger"
In the meantime the old woman stroked and fondled her geese as if they were children , and then went into the house with her daughter.
The youth lay down on the bench , under a wild apple-tree.
The air was warm and mild ; on all sides stretched a green meadow , which was set with cowslips , wild thyme , and a thousand other flowers ; through the midst of it rippled a clear brook on which the sun sparkled , and the white geese went walking backwards and forwards , or paddled in the water.
`` It is quite delightful here ,"
said he , `` but I am so tired that I can not keep my eyes open ; I will sleep a little.
If only a gust of wind does not come and blow my legs off my body , for they are as rotten as tinder"
When he had slept a little while , the old woman came and shook him till he awoke.
`` Sit up ,"
said she , `` thou canst not stay here ; I have certainly treated thee hardly , still it has not cost thee thy life.
Of money and land thou hast no need , here is something else for thee"
Thereupon she thrust a little book into his hand , which was cut out of a single emerald.
`` Take great care of it ,"
said she , `` it will bring thee good fortune"
The count sprang up , and as he felt that he was quite fresh , and had recovered his vigor , he thanked the old woman for her present , and set off without even once looking back at the beautiful daughter.
When he was already some way off , he still heard in the distance the noisy cry of the geese.
For three days the count had to wander in the wilderness before he could find his way out.
He then reached a large town , and as no one knew him , he was led into the royal palace , where the King and Queen were sitting on their throne.
The count fell on one knee , drew the emerald book out of his pocket , and laid it at the Queen 's feet.
She bade him rise and hand her the little book.
Hardly , however , had she opened it , and looked therein , than she fell as if dead to the ground.
The count was seized by the King 's servants , and was being led to prison , when the Queen opened her eyes , and ordered them to release him , and every one was to go out , as she wished to speak with him in private.
When the Queen was alone , she began to weep bitterly , and said , `` Of what use to me are the splendors and honors with which I am surrounded ; every morning I awake in pain and sorrow.
I had three daughters , the youngest of whom was so beautiful that the whole world looked on her as a wonder.
She was as white as snow , as rosy as apple-blossom , and her hair as radiant as sun-beams.
When she cried , not tears fell from her eyes , but pearls and jewels only.
When she was fifteen years old , the King summoned all three sisters to come before his throne.
You should have seen how all the people gazed when the youngest entered , it was just as if the sun were rising ! Then the King spoke , `` My daughters , I know not when my last day may arrive ; I will to-day decide what each shall receive at my death.
You all love me , but the one of you who loves me best , shall fare the best"
Each of them said she loved him best.
`` Can you not express to me ,"
said the King , `` how much you do love me , and thus I shall see what you mean ?"
The eldest spoke.
`` I love my father as dearly as the sweetest sugar"
The second , `` I love my father as dearly as my prettiest dress"
But the youngest was silent.
Then the father said , `` And thou , my dearest child , how much dost thou love me ?"
`` I do not know , and can compare my love with nothing"
But her father insisted that she should name something.
So she said at last , `` The best food does not please me without salt , therefore I love my father like salt"
When the King heard that , he fell into a passion , and said , `` If thou lovest me like salt , thy love shall also be repaid thee with salt"
Then he divided the kingdom between the two elder , but caused a sack of salt to be bound on the back of the youngest , and two servants had to lead her forth into the wild forest.
We all begged and prayed for her , said the Queen , `` but the King 's anger was not to be appeased.
How she cried when she had to leave us ! The whole road was strewn with the pearls which flowed from her eyes.
The King soon afterwards repented of his great severity , and had the whole forest searched for the poor child , but no one could find her.
When I think that the wild beasts have devoured her , I know not how to contain myself for sorrow ; many a time I console myself with the hope that she is still alive , and may have hidden herself in a cave , or has found shelter with compassionate people.
But picture to yourself , when I opened your little emerald book , a pearl lay therein , of exactly the same kind as those which used to fall from my daughter 's eyes ; and then you can also imagine how the sight of it stirred my heart.
You must tell me how you came by that pearl"
The count told her that he had received it from the old woman in the forest , who had appeared very strange to him , and must be a witch , but he had neither seen nor hear anything of the Queen 's child.
The King and the Queen resolved to seek out the old woman.
They thought that there where the pearl had been , they would obtain news of their daughter.
The old woman was sitting in that lonely place at her spinning-wheel , spinning.
It was already dusk , and a log which was burning on the hearth gave a scanty light.
All at once there was a noise outside , the geese were coming home from the pasture , and uttering their hoarse cries.
Soon afterwards the daughter also entered.
But the old woman scarcely thanked her , and only shook her head a little.
The daughter sat down beside her , took her spinning-wheel , and twisted the threads as nimbly as a young girl.
Thus they both sat for two hours , and exchanged never a word.
At last something rustled at the window , and two fiery eyes peered in.
It was an old night-owl , which cried , `` Uhu !"
three times.
The old woman looked up just a little , then she said , `` Now , my little daughter , it is time for thee to go out and do thy work"
She rose and went out , and where did she go ? Over the meadows ever onward into the valley.
At last she came to a well , with three old oak-trees standing beside it ; meanwhile the moon had risen large and round over the mountain , and it was so light that one could have found a needle.
She removed a skin which covered her face , then bent down to the well , and began to wash herself.
When she had finished , she dipped the skin also in the water , and then laid it on the meadow , so that it should bleach in the moonlight , and dry again.
But how the maiden was changed ! Such a change as that was never seen before ! When the gray mask fell off , her golden hair broke forth like sunbeams , and spread about like a mantle over her whole form.
Her eyes shone out as brightly as the stars in heaven , and her cheeks bloomed a soft red like apple-blossom.
But the fair maiden was sad.
She sat down and wept bitterly.
One tear after another forced itself out of her eyes , and rolled through her long hair to the ground.
There she sat , and would have remained sitting a long time , if there had not been a rustling and cracking in the boughs of the neighbouring tree.
She sprang up like a roe which has been overtaken by the shot of the hunter.
Just then the moon was obscured by a dark cloud , and in an instant the maiden had put on the old skin and vanished , like a light blown out by the wind.
She ran back home , trembling like an aspen-leaf.
The old woman was standing on the threshold , and the girl was about to relate what had befallen her , but the old woman laughed kindly , and said , `` I already know all"
She led her into the room and lighted a new log.
She did not , however , sit down to her spinning again , but fetched a broom and began to sweep and scour , `` All must be clean and sweet ,"
she said to the girl.
`` But , mother ,"
said the maiden , `` why do you begin work at so late an hour ? What do you expect ?"
`` Dost thou know then what time it is ?"
asked the old woman.
`` Not yet midnight ,"
answered the maiden , `` but already past eleven o'clock"
`` Dost thou not remember ,"
continued the old woman , `` that it is three years to-day since thou camest to me ? Thy time is up , we can no longer remain together"
The girl was terrified , and said , `` Alas ! dear mother , will you cast me off ? Where shall I go ? I have no friends , and no home to which I can go.
I have always done as you bade me , and you have always been satisfied with me ; do not send me away"
The old woman would not tell the maiden what lay before her.
`` My stay here is over ,"
she said to her , `` but when I depart , house and parlor must be clean : therefore do not hinder me in my work.
Have no care for thyself , thou shalt find a roof to shelter thee , and the wages which I will give thee shall also content thee"
`` But tell me what is about to happen ,"
the maiden continued to entreat.
`` I tell thee again , do not hinder me in my work.
Do not say a word more , go to thy chamber , take the skin off thy face , and put on the silken gown which thou hadst on when thou camest to me , and then wait in thy chamber until I call thee"
But I must once more tell of the King and Queen , who had journeyed forth with the count in order to seek out the old woman in the wilderness.
The count had strayed away from them in the wood by night , and had to walk onwards alone.
Next day it seemed to him that he was on the right track.
He still went forward , until darkness came on , then he climbed a tree , intending to pass the night there , for he feared that he might lose his way.
When the moon illumined the surrounding country he perceived a figure coming down the mountain.
She had no stick in her hand , but yet he could see that it was the goose-girl , whom he had seen before in the house of the old woman.
`` Oho ,"
cried he , `` there she comes , and if I once get hold of one of the witches , the other shall not escape me !"
But how astonished he was , when she went to the well , took off the skin and washed herself , when her golden hair fell down all about her , and she was more beautiful than any one whom he had ever seen in the whole world.
He hardly dared to breathe , but stretched his head as far forward through the leaves as he dared , and stared at her.
Either he bent over too far , or whatever the cause might be , the bough suddenly cracked , and that very moment the maiden slipped into the skin , sprang away like a roe , and as the moon was suddenly covered , disappeared from his eyes.
Hardly had she disappeared , before the count descended from the tree , and hastened after her with nimble steps.
He had not been gone long before he saw , in the twilight , two figures coming over the meadow.
It was the King and Queen , who had perceived from a distance the light shining in the old woman 's little house , and were going to it.
The count told them what wonderful things he had seen by the well , and they did not doubt that it had been their lost daughter.
They walked onwards full of joy , and soon came to the little house.
The geese were sitting all round it , and had thrust their heads under their wings and were sleeping , and not one of them moved.
The King and Queen looked in at the window , the old woman was sitting there quite quietly spinning , nodding her head and never looking round.
The room was perfectly clean , as if the little mist men , who carry no dust on their feet , lived there.
Their daughter , however , they did not see.
They gazed at all this for a long time , at last they took heart , and knocked softly at the window.
The old woman appeared to have been expecting them ; she rose , and called out quite kindly , `` Come in , -- I know you already"
When they had entered the room , the old woman said , `` You might have spared yourself the long walk , if you had not three years ago unjustly driven away your child , who is so good and lovable.
No harm has come to her ; for three years she has had to tend the geese ; with them she has learned no evil , but has preserved her purity of heart.
You , however , have been sufficiently punished by the misery in which you have lived"
Then she went to the chamber and called , `` Come out , my little daughter"
Thereupon the door opened , and the princess stepped out in her silken garments , with her golden hair and her shining eyes , and it was as if an angel from heaven had entered.
She went up to her father and mother , fell on their necks and kissed them ; there was no help for it , they all had to weep for joy.
The young count stood near them , and when she perceived him she became as red in the face as a moss-rose , she herself did not know why.
The King said , `` My dear child , I have given away my kingdom , what shall I give thee ?"
`` She needs nothing ,"
said the old woman.
`` I give her the tears that she has wept on your account ; they are precious pearls , finer than those that are found in the sea , and worth more than your whole kingdom , and I give her my little house as payment for her services"
When the old woman had said that , she disappeared from their sight.
The walls rattled a little , and when the King and Queen looked round , the little house had changed into a splendid palace , a royal table had been spread , and the servants were running hither and thither.
The story goes still further , but my grandmother , who related it to me , had partly lost her memory , and had forgotten the rest.
I shall always believe that the beautiful princess married the count , and that they remained together in the palace , and lived there in all happiness so long as God willed it.
Whether the snow-white geese , which were kept near the little hut , were verily young maidens -LRB- no one need take offence , -RRB- whom the old woman had taken under her protection , and whether they now received their human form again , and stayed as handmaids to the young Queen , I do not exactly know , but I suspect it.
This much is certain , that the old woman was no witch , as people thought , but a wise woman , who meant well.
Very likely it was she who , at the princess 's birth , gave her the gift of weeping pearls instead of tears.
That does not happen now-a-days , or else the poor would soon become rich"
Hill and vale do not come together , but the children of men do , good and bad.
In this way a shoemaker and a tailor once met with each other in their travels.
The tailor was a handsome little fellow who was always merry and full of enjoyment.
He saw the shoemaker coming towards him from the other side , and as he observed by his bag what kind of a trade he plied , he sang a little mocking song to him , `` Sew me the seam , Draw me the thread , Spread it over with pitch , Knock the nail on the head"
The shoemaker , however , could not endure a joke ; he pulled a face as if he had drunk vinegar , and made a gesture as if he were about to seize the tailor by the throat.
But the little fellow began to laugh , reached him his bottle , and said , `` No harm was meant , take a drink , and swallow your anger down"
The shoemaker took a very hearty drink , and the storm on his face began to clear away.
He gave the bottle back to the tailor , and said , `` I spoke civilly to you ; one speaks well after much drinking , but not after much thirst.
Shall we travel together ?"
`` All right ,"
answered the tailor , `` if only it suits you to go into a big town where there is no lack of work"
`` That is just where I want to go ,"
answered the shoemaker.
`` In a small nest there is nothing to earn , and in the country , people like to go barefoot"
They traveled therefore onwards together , and always set one foot before the other like a weasel in the snow.
Both of them had time enough , but little to bite and to break.
When they reached a town they went about and paid their respects to the tradesmen , and because the tailor looked so lively and merry , and had such pretty red cheeks , every one gave him work willingly , and when luck was good the master 's daughters gave him a kiss beneath the porch , as well.
When he again fell in with the shoemaker , the tailor had always the most in his bundle.
The ill-tempered shoemaker made a wry face , and thought , `` The greater the rascal the more the luck ,"
but the tailor began to laugh and to sing , and shared all he got with his comrade.
If a couple of pence jingled in his pockets , he ordered good cheer , and thumped the table in his joy till the glasses danced , and it was lightly come , lightly go , with him.
When they had traveled for some time , they came to a great forest through which passed the road to the capital.
Two foot-paths , however , led through it , one of which was a seven days ' journey , and the other only two , but neither of the travellers knew which way was the short one.
They seated themselves beneath an oak-tree , and took counsel together how they should forecast , and for how many days they should provide themselves with bread.
The shoemaker said , `` One must look before one leaps , I will take with me bread for a week"
`` What !"
said the tailor , `` drag bread for seven days on one 's back like a beast of burden , and not be able to look about.
I shall trust in God , and not trouble myself about anything ! The money I have in my pocket is as good in summer as in winter , but in hot weather bread gets dry , and mouldy into the bargain ; even my coat does not go as far as it might.
Besides , why should we not find the right way ? Bread for two days , and that 's enough"
Each , therefore , bought his own bread , and then they tried their luck in the forest.
It was as quiet there as in a church.
No wind stirred , no brook murmured , no bird sang , and through the thickly-leaved branches no sunbeam forced its way.
The shoemaker spoke never a word , the heavy bread weighed down his back until the perspiration streamed down his cross and gloomy face.
The tailor , however , was quite merry , he jumped about , whistled on a leaf , or sang a song , and thought to himself , `` God in heaven must be pleased to see me so happy"
This lasted two days , but on the third the forest would not come to an end , and the tailor had eaten up all his bread , so after all his heart sank down a yard deeper.
In the meantime he did not lose courage , but relied on God and on his luck.
On the third day he lay down in the evening hungry under a tree , and rose again next morning hungry still ; so also passed the fourth day , and when the shoemaker seated himself on a fallen tree and devoured his dinner , the tailor was only a looker-on.
If he begged for a little piece of bread the other laughed mockingly , and said , `` Thou hast always been so merry , now thou canst try for once what it is to be sad : the birds which sing too early in the morning are struck by the hawk in the evening ,"
In short he was pitiless.
But on the fifth morning the poor tailor could no longer stand up , and was hardly able to utter one word for weakness ; his cheeks were white , and his eyes red.
Then the shoemaker said to him , `` I will give thee a bit of bread to-day , but in return for it , I will put out thy right eye"
The unhappy tailor who still wished to save his life , could not do it in any other way ; he wept once more with both eyes , and then held them out , and the shoemaker , who had a heart of stone , put out his right eye with a sharp knife.
The tailor called to remembrance what his mother had formerly said to him when he had been eating secretly in the pantry.
`` Eat what one can , and suffer what one must"
When he had consumed his dearly-bought bread , he got on his legs again , forgot his misery and comforted himself with the thought that he could always see enough with one eye.
But on the sixth day , hunger made itself felt again , and gnawed him almost to the heart.
In the evening he fell down by a tree , and on the seventh morning he could not raise himself up for faintness , and death was close at hand.
Then said the shoemaker , `` I will show mercy and give thee bread once more , but thou shalt not have it for nothing , I shall put out thy other eye for it"
And now the tailor felt how thoughtless his life had been , prayed to God for forgiveness , and said , `` Do what thou wilt , I will bear what I must , but remember that our Lord God does not always look on passively , and that an hour will come when the evil deed which thou hast done to me , and which I have not deserved of thee , will be requited.
When times were good with me , I shared what I had with thee.
My trade is of that kind that each stitch must always be exactly like the other.
If I no longer have my eyes and can sew no more I must go a-begging.
At any rate do not leave me here alone when I am blind , or I shall die of hunger"
The shoemaker , however , who had driven God out of his heart , took the knife and put out his left eye.
Then he gave him a bit of bread to eat , held out a stick to him , and drew him on behind him.
When the sun went down , they got out of the forest , and before them in the open country stood the gallows.
Thither the shoemaker guided the blind tailor , and then left him alone and went his way.
Weariness , pain , and hunger made the wretched man fall asleep , and he slept the whole night.
When day dawned he awoke , but knew not where he lay.
Two poor sinners were hanging on the gallows , and a crow sat on the head of each of them.
Then one of the men who had been hanged began to speak , and said , `` Brother , art thou awake ?"
`` Yes , I am awake ,"
answered the second.
`` Then I will tell thee something ,"
said the first ; `` the dew which this night has fallen down over us from the gallows , gives every one who washes himself with it his eyes again.
If blind people did but know this , how many would regain their sight who do not believe that to be possible"
When the tailor heard that , he took his pocket-handkerchief , pressed it on the grass , and when it was moist with dew , washed the sockets of his eyes with it.
Immediately was fulfilled what the man on the gallows had said , and a couple of healthy new eyes filled the sockets.
It was not long before the tailor saw the sun rise behind the mountains ; in the plain before him lay the great royal city with its magnificent gates and hundred towers , and the golden balls and crosses which were on the spires began to shine.
He could distinguish every leaf on the trees , saw the birds which flew past , and the midges which danced in the air.
He took a needle out of his pocket , and as he could thread it as well as ever he had done , his heart danced with delight.
He threw himself on his knees , thanked God for the mercy he had shown him , and said his morning prayer.
He did not forget also to pray for the poor sinners who were hanging there swinging against each other in the wind like the pendulums of clocks.
Then he took his bundle on his back and soon forgot the pain of heart he had endured , and went on his way singing and whistling.
The first thing he met was a brown foal running about the fields at large.
He caught it by the mane , and wanted to spring on it and ride into the town.
The foal , however , begged to be set free.
`` I am still too young ,"
it said , `` even a light tailor such as thou art would break my back in two let me go till I have grown strong.
A time may perhaps come when I may reward thee for it"
`` Run off ,"
said the tailor , `` I see thou art still a giddy thing"
He gave it a touch with a switch over its back , whereupon it kicked up its hind legs for joy , leapt over hedges and ditches , and galloped away into the open country.
But the little tailor had eaten nothing since the day before.
`` The sun to be sure fills my eyes ,"
said he , `` but the bread does not fill my mouth.
The first thing that comes across me and is even half edible will have to suffer for it"
In the meantime a stork stepped solemnly over the meadow towards him.
`` Halt , halt !"
cried the tailor , and seized him by the leg.
`` I do n't know if thou art good to eat or not , but my hunger leaves me no great choice.
I must cut thy head off , and roast thee"
`` Do n't do that ,"
replied the stork ; `` I am a sacred bird which brings mankind great profit , and no one does me an injury.
Leave me my life , and I may do thee good in some other way"
`` Well , be off , Cousin Longlegs ,"
said the tailor.
The stork rose up , let its long legs hang down , and flew gently away.
`` What 's to be the end of this ?"
said the tailor to himself at last , `` my hunger grows greater and greater , and my stomach more and more empty.
Whatsoever comes in my way now is lost"
At this moment he saw a couple of young ducks which were on a pond come swimming towards him.
`` You come just at the right moment ,"
said he , and laid hold of one of them and was about to wring its neck.
On this an old duck which was hidden among the reeds , began to scream loudly , and swam to him with open beak , and begged him urgently to spare her dear children.
`` Canst thou not imagine ,"
said she , `` how thy mother would mourn if any one wanted to carry thee off , and give thee thy finishing stroke ?"
`` Only be quiet ,"
said the good-tempered tailor , `` thou shalt keep thy children ,"
and put the prisoner back into the water.
When he turned round , he was standing in front of an old tree which was partly hollow , and saw some wild bees flying in and out of it.
`` There I shall at once find the reward of my good deed ,"
said the tailor , `` the honey will refresh me"
But the Queen-bee came out , threatened him and said , `` If thou touchest my people , and destroyest my nest , our stings shall pierce thy skin like ten thousand red-hot needles.
But if thou wilt leave us in peace and go thy way , we will do thee a service for it another time"
The little tailor saw that here also nothing was to be done.
`` Three dishes empty and nothing on the fourth is a bad dinner !"
He dragged himself therefore with his starved-out stomach into the town , and as it was just striking twelve , all was ready-cooked for him in the inn , and he was able to sit down at once to dinner.
When he was satisfied he said , `` Now I will get to work"
He went round the town , sought a master , and soon found a good situation.
As , however , he had thoroughly learned his trade , it was not long before he became famous , and every one wanted to have his new coat made by the little tailor , whose importance increased daily.
`` I can go no further in skill ,"
said he , `` and yet things improve every day"
At last the person_0 appointed him court-tailor.
But how things do happen in the world ! On the very same day his former comrade the shoemaker also became court-shoemaker.
When the latter caught sight of the tailor , and saw that he had once more two healthy eyes , his conscience troubled him.
`` Before he takes revenge on me ,"
thought he to himself , `` I must dig a pit for him"
He , however , who digs a pit for another , falls into it himself.
In the evening when work was over and it had grown dusk , he stole to the person_0 and said , `` Lord person_0 , the tailor is an arrogant fellow and has boasted that he will get the gold crown back again which was lost in ancient times"
`` That would please me very much ,"
said the person_0 , and he caused the tailor to be brought before him next morning , and ordered him to get the crown back again , or to leave the town for ever.
`` Oho !"
thought the tailor , `` a rogue gives more than he has got.
If the surly person_0 wants me to do what can be done by no one , I will not wait till morning , but will go out of the town at once , to-day"
He packed up his bundle , therefore , but when he was without the gate he could not help being sorry to give up his good fortune , and turn his back on the town in which all had gone so well with him.
He came to the pond where he had made the acquaintance of the ducks ; at that very moment the old one whose young ones he had spared , was sitting there by the shore , pluming herself with her beak.
She knew him again instantly , and asked why he was hanging his head so ? `` Thou wilt not be surprised when thou hearest what has befallen me ,"
replied the tailor , and told her his fate.
`` If that be all ,"
said the duck , `` we can help thee.
The crown fell into the water , and lies down below at the bottom ; we will soon bring it up again for thee.
In the meantime just spread out thy handkerchief on the bank"
She dived down with her twelve young ones , and in five minutes she was up again and sat with the crown resting on her wings , and the twelve young ones were swimming round about and had put their beaks under it , and were helping to carry it.
They swam to the shore and put the crown on the handkerchief.
No one can imagine how magnificent the crown was ; when the sun shone on it , it gleamed like a hundred thousand carbuncles.
The tailor tied his handkerchief together by the four corners , and carried it to the person_0 , who was full of joy , and put a gold chain round the tailor 's neck.
When the shoemaker saw that one stroke had failed , he contrived a second , and went to the person_0 and said , `` Lord person_0 , the tailor has become insolent again ; he boasts that he will copy in wax the whole of the royal palace , with everything that pertains to it , loose or fast , inside and out"
The person_0 sent for the tailor and ordered him to copy in wax the whole of the royal palace , with everything that pertained to it , movable or immovable , within and without , and if he did not succeed in doing this , or if so much as one nail on the wall were wanting , he should be imprisoned for his whole life under ground.
The tailor thought , `` It gets worse and worse ! No one can endure that ?"
and threw his bundle on his back , and went forth.
When he came to the hollow tree , he sat down and hung his head.
The bees came flying out , and the Queen-bee asked him if he had a stiff neck , since he held his head so awry ? `` Alas , no ,"
answered the tailor , `` something quite different weighs me down ,"
and he told her what the person_0 had demanded of him.
The bees began to buzz and hum amongst themselves , and the Queen-bee said , `` Just go home again , but come back to-morrow at this time , and bring a large sheet with you , and then all will be well"
So he turned back again , but the bees flew to the royal palace and straight into it through the open windows , crept round about into every corner , and inspected everything most carefully.
Then they hurried back and modelled the palace in wax with such rapidity that any one looking on would have thought it was growing before his eyes.
By the evening all was ready , and when the tailor came next morning , the whole of the splendid building was there , and not one nail in the wall or tile of the roof was wanting , and it was delicate withal , and white as snow , and smelt sweet as honey.
The tailor wrapped it carefully in his cloth and took it to the person_0 , who could not admire it enough , placed it in his largest hall , and in return for it presented the tailor with a large stone house.
The shoemaker , however , did not give up , but went for the third time to the person_0 and said , `` Lord person_0 , it has come to the tailor 's ears that no water will spring up in the court-yard of the castle , and he has boasted that it shall rise up in the midst of the court-yard to a man 's height and be clear as crystal"
Then the person_0 ordered the tailor to be brought before him and said , `` If a stream of water does not rise in my court-yard by to-morrow as thou hast promised , the executioner shall in that very place make thee shorter by the head"
The poor tailor did not take long to think about it , but hurried out to the gate , and because this time it was a matter of life and death to him , tears rolled down his face.
Whilst he was thus going forth full of sorrow , the foal to which he had formerly given its liberty , and which had now become a beautiful chestnut horse , came leaping towards him.
`` The time has come ,"
it said to the tailor , `` when I can repay thee for thy good deed.
I know already what is needful to thee , but thou shalt soon have help ; get on me , my back can carry two such as thou"
The tailor 's courage came back to him ; he jumped up in one bound , and the horse went full speed into the town , and right up to the court-yard of the castle.
It galloped as quick as lightning thrice round it , and at the third time it fell violently down.
At the same instant , however , there was a terrific clap of thunder , a fragment of earth in the middle of the court-yard sprang like a cannon-ball into the air , and over the castle , and directly after it a jet of water rose as high as a man on horseback , and the water was as pure as crystal , and the sunbeams began to dance on it.
When the person_0 saw that he arose in amazement , and went and embraced the tailor in the sight of all men.
But good fortune did not last long.
The person_0 had daughters in plenty , one still prettier than the other , but he had no son.
So the malicious shoemaker betook himself for the fourth time to the person_0 , and said , `` Lord person_0 , the tailor has not given up his arrogance.
He has now boasted that if he liked , he could cause a son to be brought to the Lord king through the air"
The person_0 commanded the tailor to be summoned , and said , `` If thou causest a son to be brought to me within nine days , thou shalt have my eldest daughter to wife"
`` The reward is indeed great ,"
thought the little tailor ; `` one would willingly do something for it , but the cherries grow too high for me , if I climb for them , the bough will break beneath me , and I shall fall"
He went home , seated himself cross-legged on his work-table , and thought over what was to be done.
`` It ca n't be managed ,"
cried he at last , `` I will go away ; after all I ca n't live in peace here"
He tied up his bundle and hurried away to the gate.
When he got to the meadow , he perceived his old friend the stork , who was walking backwards and forwards like a philosopher.
Sometimes he stood still , took a frog into close consideration , and at length swallowed it down.
The stork came to him and greeted him.
`` I see ,"
he began , `` that thou hast thy pack on thy back.
Why art thou leaving the town ?"
The tailor told him what the person_0 had required of him , and how he could not perform it , and lamented his misfortune.
`` Do n't let thy hair grow gray about that ,"
said the stork , `` I will help thee out of thy difficulty.
For a long time now , I have carried the children in swaddling-clothes into the town , so for once in a way I can fetch a little prince out of the well.
Go home and be easy.
In nine days from this time repair to the royal palace , and there will I come"
The little tailor went home , and at the appointed time was at the castle.
It was not long before the stork came flying thither and tapped at the window.
The tailor opened it , and cousin Longlegs came carefully in , and walked with solemn steps over the smooth marble pavement.
He had , moreover , a baby in his beak that was as lovely as an angel , and stretched out its little hands to the Queen.
The stork laid it in her lap , and she caressed it and kissed it , and was beside herself with delight.
Before the stork flew away , he took his traveling bag off his back and handed it over to the Queen.
In it there were little paper parcels with colored sweetmeats , and they were divided amongst the little princesses.
The eldest , however , had none of them , but got the merry tailor for a husband.
`` It seems to me ,"
said he , `` just as if I had won the highest prize.
My mother was if right after all , she always said that whoever trusts in God and only has good luck , can never fail"
The shoemaker had to make the shoes in which the little tailor danced at the wedding festival , after which he was commanded to quit the town for ever.
The road to the forest led him to the gallows.
Worn out with anger , rage , and the heat of the day , he threw himself down.
When he had closed his eyes and was about to sleep , the two crows flew down from the heads of the men who were hanging there , and pecked his eyes out.
In his madness he ran into the forest and must have died there of hunger , for no one has ever either seen him again or heard of him"
A WOMAN was going about the unenclosed land with her daughter and her step-daughter cutting fodder , when the Lord came walking towards them in the form of a poor man , and asked , `` Which is the way into the village ?"
`` If you want to know ,"
said the mother , `` seek it for yourself ,"
and the daughter added , `` If you are afraid you will not find it , take a guide with you"
But the step-daughter said , `` Poor man , I will take you there , come with me"
Then God was angry with the mother and daughter , and turned his back on them , and wished that they should become as black as night and as ugly as sin.
To the poor step-daughter , however , God was gracious , and went with her , and when they were near the village , he said a blessing over her , and spake , `` Choose three things for thyself , and I will grant them to thee"
Then said the maiden , `` I should like to be as beautiful and fair as the sun ,"
and instantly she was white and fair as day.
`` Then I should like to have a purse of money which would never grow empty"
That the Lord gave her also , but he said , `` Do not forget what is best of all"
Said she , `` For my third wish , I desire , after my death , to inhabit the eternal kingdom of Heaven"
That also was granted unto her , and then the Lord left her.
When the step-mother came home with her daughter , and they saw that they were both as black as coal and ugly , but that the step-daughter was white and beautiful , wickedness increased still more in their hearts , and they thought of nothing else but how they could do her an injury.
The step-daughter , however , had a brother called Reginer , whom she loved much , and she told him all that had happened.
Once on a time Reginer said to her , `` Dear sister , I will take thy likeness , that I may continually see thee before mine eyes , for my love for thee is so great that I should like always to look at thee"
Then she answered , `` But , I pray thee , let no one see the picture"
So he painted his sister and hung up the picture in his room ; he , however , dwelt in the person_0 's palace , for he was his coachman.
Every day he went and stood before the picture , and thanked God for the happiness of having such a dear sister.
Now it happened that the person_0 whom he served , had just lost his wife , who had been so beautiful that no one could be found to compare with her , and on this account the person_0 was in deep grief.
The attendants about the court , however , remarked that the coachman stood daily before this beautiful picture , and they were jealous of him , so they informed the person_0.
Then the latter ordered the picture to be brought to him , and when he saw that it was like his lost wife in every respect , except that it was still more beautiful , he fell mortally in love with it.
He caused the coachman to be brought before him , and asked whom the portrait represented ? The coachman said it was his sister , so the person_0 resolved to take no one but her as his wife , and gave him a carriage and horses and splendid garments of cloth of gold , and sent him forth to fetch his chosen bride.
When Reginer came on this errand , his sister was glad , but the black maiden was jealous of her good fortune , and grew angry above all measure , and said to her mother , `` Of what use are all your arts to us now when you can not procure such a piece of luck for me ?"
`` Be quiet ,"
said the old woman , `` I will soon divert it to you ,"
and by her arts of witchcraft , she so troubled the eyes of the coachman that he was half-blind , and she stopped the ears of the white maiden so that she was half-deaf.
Then they got into the carriage , first the bride in her noble royal apparel , then the step-mother with her daughter , and Reginer sat on the box to drive.
When they had been on the way for some time the coachman cried , `` Cover thee well , my sister dear , That the rain may not wet thee , That the wind may not load thee with dust , That thou may ` st be fair and beautiful When thou appearest before the person_0"
The bride asked , `` What is my dear brother saying ?"
`` Ah ,"
said the old woman , `` he says that you ought to take off your golden dress and give it to your sister"
Then she took it off , and put it on the black maiden , who gave her in exchange for it a shabby gray gown.
They drove onwards , and a short time afterwards , the brother again cried , `` Cover thee well , my sister dear , That the rain may not wet thee , That the wind may not load thee with dust , That thou may ` st be fair and beautiful When thou appearest before the person_0"
The bride asked , `` What is my dear brother saying ?"
`` Ah ,"
said the old woman , `` he says that you ought to take off your golden hood and give it to your sister"
So she took off the hood and put it on her sister , and sat with her own head uncovered.
And they drove on farther.
After a while , the brother once more cried , `` Cover thee well , my sister dear , That the rain may not wet thee , That the wind may not load thee with dust , That thou may ` st be fair and beautiful When thou appearest before the person_0"
The bride asked , `` What is my dear brother saying ?"
`` Ah ,"
said the old woman , `` he says you must look out of the carriage"
They were , however , just on a bridge , which crossed deep water.
When the bride stood up and leaned forward out of the carriage , they both pushed her out , and she fell into the middle of the water.
At the same moment that she sank , a snow-white duck arose out of the mirror-smooth water , and swam down the river.
The brother had observed nothing of it , and drove the carriage on until they reached the court.
Then he took the black maiden to the person_0 as his sister , and thought she really was so , because his eyes were dim , and he saw the golden garments glittering.
When the person_0 saw the boundless ugliness of his intended bride , he was very angry , and ordered the coachman to be thrown into a pit which was full of adders and nests of snakes.
The old witch , however , knew so well how to flatter the person_0 and deceive his eyes by her arts , that he kept her and her daughter until she appeared quite endurable to him , and he really married her.
One evening when the black bride was sitting on the person_0 's knee , a white duck came swimming up the gutter to the kitchen , and said to the kitchen-boy , `` Boy , light a fire , that I may warm my feathers"
The kitchen-boy did it , and lighted a fire on the hearth.
Then came the duck and sat down by it , and shook herself and smoothed her feathers to rights with her bill.
While she was thus sitting and enjoying herself , she asked , `` What is my brother Reginer doing ?"
The scullery-boy replied , `` He is imprisoned in the pit with adders and with snakes"
Then she asked , `` What is the black witch doing in the house ?"
The boy answered , `` She is loved by the person_0 and happy"
`` May God have mercy on him ,"
said the duck , and swam forth by the sink.
The next night she came again and put the same questions , and the third night also.
Then the kitchen-boy could bear it no longer , and went to the person_0 and discovered all to him.
The person_0 , however , wanted to see it for himself , and next evening went thither , and when the duck thrust her head in through the sink , he took his sword and cut through her neck , and suddenly she changed into a most beautiful maiden , exactly like the picture , which her brother had made of her.
The person_0 was full of joy , and as she stood there quite wet , he caused splendid apparel to be brought and had her clothed in it.
Then she told how she had been betrayed by cunning and falsehood , and at last thrown down into the water , and her first request was that her brother should be brought forth from the pit of snakes , and when the person_0 had fulfilled this request , he went into the chamber where the old witch was , and asked , What does she deserve who does this and that ? and related what had happened.
Then was she so blinded that she was aware of nothing and said , `` She deserves to be stripped naked , and put into a barrel with nails , and that a horse should be harnessed to the barrel , and the horse sent all over the world"
All of which was done to her , and to her black daughter.
But the person_0 married the white and beautiful bride , and rewarded her faithful brother , and made him a rich and distinguished man"
There was once a poor man who had four sons , and when they were grown up , he said to them , `` My dear children , you must now go out into the world , for I have nothing to give you , so set out , and go to some distance and learn a trade , and see how you can make your way"
So the four brothers took their sticks , bade their father farewell , and went through the town-gate together.
When they had traveled about for some time , they came to a cross-way which branched off in four different directions.
Then said the eldest , `` Here we must separate , but on this day four years , we will meet each other again at this spot , and in the meantime we will seek our fortunes"
Then each of them went his way , and the eldest met a man who asked him where he was going , and what he was intending to do ? `` I want to learn a trade ,"
he replied.
Then the other said , `` Come with me , and be a thief"
`` No ,"
he answered , `` that is no longer regarded as a reputable trade , and the end of it is that one has to swing on the gallows"
`` Oh ,"
said the man , `` you need not be afraid of the gallows ; I will only teach you to get such things as no other man could ever lay hold of , and no one will ever detect you"
So he allowed himself to be talked into it , and while with the man became an accomplished thief , and so dexterous that nothing was safe from him , if he once desired to have it.
The second brother met a man who put the same question to him what he wanted to learn in the world.
`` I do n't know yet ,"
he replied.
`` Then come with me , and be an astronomer ; there is nothing better than that , for nothing is hid from you"
He liked the idea , and became such a skillful astronomer that when he had learned everything , and was about to travel onwards , his master gave him a telescope and said to him , `` With that you canst thou see whatsoever takes place either on earth or in heaven , and nothing can remain concealed from thee"
A huntsman took the third brother into training , and gave him such excellent instruction in everything which related to huntsmanship , that he became an experienced hunter.
When he went away , his master gave him a gun and said , `` It will never fail you ; whatsoever you aim at , you are certain to hit"
The youngest brother also met a man who spoke to him , and inquired what his intentions were.
`` Would you not like to be a tailor ?"
said he.
`` Not that I know of ,"
said the youth ; `` sitting doubled up from morning till night , driving the needle and the goose backwards and forwards , is not to my taste"
`` Oh , but you are speaking in ignorance ,"
answered the man ; `` with me you would learn a very different kind of tailoring , which is respectable and proper , and for the most part very honorable"
So he let himself be persuaded , and went with the man , and learned his art from the very beginning.
When they parted , the man gave the youth a needle , and said , `` With this you can sew together whatever is given you , whether it is as soft as an egg or as hard as steel ; and it will all become one piece of stuff , so that no seam will be visible"
When the appointed four years were over , the four brothers arrived at the same time at the cross-roads , embraced and kissed each other , and returned home to their father.
`` So now ,"
said he , quite delighted , `` the wind has blown you back again to me"
They told him of all that had happened to them , and that each had learned his own trade.
Now they were sitting just in front of the house under a large tree , and the father said , `` I will put you all to the test , and see what you can do"
Then he looked up and said to his second son , `` Between two branches up at the top of this tree , there is a chaffinch 's nest , tell me how many eggs there are in it ?"
The astronomer took his glass , looked up , and said , `` There are five"
Then the father said to the eldest , `` Fetch the eggs down without disturbing the bird which is sitting hatching them"
The skillful thief climbed up , and took the five eggs from beneath the bird , which never observed what he was doing , and remained quietly sitting where she was , and brought them down to his father.
The father took them , and put one of them on each corner of the table , and the fifth in the middle , and said to the huntsman , `` With one shot thou shalt shoot me the five eggs in two , through the middle"
The huntsman aimed , and shot the eggs , all five as the father had desired , and that at one shot.
He certainly must have had some of the powder for shooting round corners.
`` Now it 's your turn ,"
said the father to the fourth son ; `` you shall sew the eggs together again , and the young birds that are inside them as well , and you must do it so that they are not hurt by the shot"
The tailor brought his needle , and sewed them as his father wished.
When he had done this the thief had to climb up the tree again , and carry them to the nest , and put them back again under the bird without her being aware of it.
The bird sat her full time , and after a few days the young ones crept out , and they had a red line round their necks where they had been sewn together by the tailor.
`` Well ,"
said the old man to his sons , `` I begin to think you are worth more than breen clover ; you have used your time well , and learned something good.
I ca n't say which of you deserves the most praise.
That will be proved if you have but an early opportunity of using your talents"
Not long after this , there was a great uproar in the country , for the King 's daughter was carried off by a dragon.
The King was full of trouble about it , both by day and night , and caused it to be proclaimed that whosoever brought her back should have her to wife.
The four brothers said to each other , `` This would be a fine opportunity for us to show what we can do !"
and resolved to go forth together and liberate the King 's daughter.
`` I will soon know where she is ,"
said the astronomer , and looked through his telescope and said , `` I see her already , she is far away from here on a rock in the sea , and the dragon is beside her watching her"
Then he went to the King , and asked for a ship for himself and his brothers , and sailed with them over the sea until they came to the rock.
There the King 's daughter was sitting , and the dragon was lying asleep on her lap.
The huntsman said , `` I dare not fire , I should kill the beautiful maiden at the same time"
`` Then I will try my art ,"
said the thief , and he crept thither and stole her away from under the dragon , so quietly and dexterously , that the monster never remarked it , but went on snoring.
Full of joy , they hurried off with her on board ship , and steered out into the open sea ; but the dragon , who when he awoke had found no princess there , followed them , and came snorting angrily through the air.
Just as he was circling above the ship , and about to descend on it , the huntsman shouldered his gun , and shot him to the heart.
The monster fell down dead , but was so large and powerful that his fall shattered the whole ship.
Fortunately , however , they laid hold of a couple of planks , and swam about the wide sea.
Then again they were in great peril , but the tailor , who was not idle , took his wondrous needle , and with a few stitches sewed the planks together , and they seated themselves upon them , and collected together all the fragments of the vessel.
Then he sewed these so skilfully together , that in a very short time the ship was once more seaworthy , and they could go home again in safety.
When the King once more saw his daughter , there were great rejoicings.
He said to the four brothers , `` One of you shall have her to wife , but which of you it is to be you must settle among yourselves"
Then a warm contest arose among them , for each of them preferred his own claim.
The astronomer said , `` If I had not seen the princess , all your arts would have been useless , so she is mine"
The thief said , `` What would have been the use of your seeing , if I had not got her away from the dragon ? so she is mine"
The huntsman said , `` You and the princess , and all of you , would have been torn to pieces by the dragon if my ball had not hit him , so she is mine"
The tailor said , `` And if I , by my art , had not sewn the ship together again , you would all of you have been miserably drowned , so she is mine"
Then the King uttered this saying , `` Each of you has an equal right , and as all of you can not have the maiden , none of you shall have her , but I will give to each of you , as a reward , half a kingdom"
The brothers were pleased with this decision , and said , `` It is better thus than that we should be at variance with each other"
Then each of them received half a kingdom , and they lived with their father in the greatest happiness as long as it pleased God"
A GASCON -LRB- being heard one day to swear , That he 'd possess 'd a certain lovely fair , -RRB- Was played a wily trick , and nicely served ; 'Twas clear , from truth he shamefully had swerved : person_3 those who scandal propagate below , Are prophets thought , and ev ` ry action know ; While good , if spoken , scarcely is believed , And must be viewed , or not for truth received.
THE dame , indeed , the person_0 only jeered , And e ` er denied herself when he appeared ; person_3 when she met the wight , who sought to shine ; And called her angel , beauteous and divine , She fled and hastened to a female friend , Where she could laugh , and at her ease unbend.
NEAR person_4 , -LRB- our fair fugitive -RRB- there dwelled One person_2 , his nearest neighbor held ; His wife was person_1 ; 'twas with her our dove Took shelter from the person_0 's forward love , Whose name was Dorilas ; and Damon young , -LRB- The person_0 's friend -RRB- on whom gay person_1 hung.
SWEET person_4 , by her manner , you might see , From sly amours and dark intrigues was free ; The value to possess her no one knew , Though all admired the lovely belle at view.
Just twenty years she counted at the time , And now a widow was , though in her prime , -LRB- Her spouse , an aged dotard , worth a plum : -- Of those whose loss to mourn no tears e ` er come.
-RRB- OUR seraph fair , such loveliness possessed , In num ` rous ways a person_0 could have blessed ; Above , below , appeared angelic charms ; 'Twas Paradise , 'twas Heav ` n , within her arms ! THE person_0 was -- a person_0 ; -- would you more ? Who knows a person_0 knows at least a score.
I need not say what solemn vows he made ; Alike with Normans person_0s are portrayed ; Their oaths , indeed , wo n't pass for Gospel truth ; person_3 we believe that Dorilas -LRB- the youth -RRB- Loved person_4 to his soul , our lady fair , Yet he would fain be thought successful there.
ONE day , said person_4 , with unusual glee , Pretending with the person_0 to be free : -- A favor do me : -- nothing very great ; Assist to dupe one jealous of his mate ; You 'll find it very easy to be done , And doubtless ` twill produce a deal of fun.
` Tis our request -LRB- the plot you 'll say is deep , -RRB- That you this night with person_1 's husband sleep Some disagreement with her gay gallant Requires , that she a night at least should grant , To settle diff ` rences ; now we desire , That you 'll to bed with person_2 retire , There 's not a doubt he 'll think his person_1 near ; He never touches her : -- so nothing fear ; For whether jealousy , or other pains , He constantly from intercourse abstains , Snores through the night , and , if a cap he sees , Believes his wife in bed , and feels at ease.
We 'll properly equip you as a belle , And I will certainly reward you well.
TO gain but person_4 's smiles , the person_0 said , He 'd with the very devil go to bed.
THE night arrived , our wight the chamber traced ; The lights extinguished ; person_2 , too , placed ; The person_0 ` gan to tremble in a trice , And soon with terror grew as cold as ice ; Durst neither spit nor cough ; still less encroach ; And seemed to shrink , least t ` other should approach ; Crept near the edge ; would scarcely room afford , And could have passed the scabbard of a sword.
OFT in the night his bed-fellow turned round ; At length a finger on his nose he found , Which Dorilas exceedingly distressed ; person_3 more inquietude was in his breast , For fear the husband amorous should grow , From which incalculable ills might flow.
OUR person_0 ev ` ry minute knew alarm ; 'Twas now a leg stretched out , and then an arm ; He even thought he felt the husband 's beard ; person_3 presently arrived what more he feared.
A BELL , conveniently , was near the bed , Which person_2 to ring was often led ; At this the person_0 swooned , so great his fear , And swore , for ever he 'd renounce his dear.
person_3 no one coming , person_2 , once more , Resumed his place , and ` gan again to snore.
AT length , before the sun his head had reared ; The door was opened , and a torch appeared.
Misfortune then he fancied full in sight ; More pleased he 'd been to rise without a light , And clearly thought 'twas over with him now ; The flame approached ; -- the drops ran o ` er his brow ; With terror he for pardon humbly prayed : -- You have it , cried a fair : be not dismayed ; 'Twas person_4 spoke , who person_2 's place Had filled , throughout the night , with wily grace , And now to Damon and his person_1 flew , With ridicule the person_0 to pursue ; Recounted all the terrors and affright , Which Dorilas had felt throughout the night.
To mortify still more the silly swain , And fill his soul with ev ` ry poignant pain , She gave a glimpse of beauties to his view , And from his presence instantly withdrew"
A sparrow had four young ones in a swallow 's nest.
When they were fledged , some naughty boys pulled out the nest , but fortunately all the birds got safely away in the high wind.
Then the old bird was grieved that as his sons had all gone out into the world , he had not first warned them of every kind of danger , and given them good instruction how to deal with each.
In the autumn a great many sparrows assembled together in a wheatfield , and there the old bird met his four children again , and full of joy took them home with him.
`` Ah , my dear sons , what pain I have been in about you all through the summer , because you got away in the wind without my teaching ; listen to my words , obey your father , and be well on your guard.
Little birds have to encounter great dangers !"
And then he asked the eldest where he had spent the summer , and how he had supported himself ? `` I stayed in the gardens , and looked for caterpillars and small worms , until the cherries got ripe"
`` Ah , my son ,"
said the father , `` tit-bits are not bad , but there is great risk about them ; on that account take great care of thyself henceforth , and particularly when people are going about the gardens who carry long green poles which are hollow inside and have a little hole at the top"
`` Yes , father , but what if a little green leaf is stuck over the hole with wax ?"
said the son.
`` Where hast thou seen that ?"
`` In a merchant 's garden ,"
said the youngster.
`` Oh , my son , merchant folks are quick folks ,"
said the father.
`` If thou hast been among the children of the world , thou hast learned worldly shiftiness enough , only see that thou usest it well , and do not be too confident"
After this he asked the next , `` Where hast thou passed thy time ?"
`` At court ,"
said the son.
`` Sparrows and silly little birds are of no use in that place -- there one finds much gold , velvet , silk , armor , harnesses , sparrow-hawks , screech-owls and hen-harriers ; keep to the horses ' stable where they winnow oats , or thresh , and then fortune may give thee thy daily grain of corn in peace"
`` Yes , father ,"
said the son , `` but when the stable-boys make traps and fix their gins and snares in the straw , many a one is caught fast"
`` Where hast thou seen that ?"
said the old bird.
`` At court , among the stable-boys"
`` Oh , my son , court boys are bad boys ! If thou hast been to court and among the lords , and hast left no feathers there , thou hast learned a fair amount , and wilt know very well how to go about the world , but look around thee and above thee , for the wolves devour the wisest dogs"
The father examined the third also : `` Where didst thou seek thy safety ?"
`` I have broken up tubs and ropes on the cart-roads and highways , and sometimes met with a grain of corn or barley"
`` That is indeed dainty fare ,"
said the father , `` but take care what thou art about and look carefully around , especially when thou seest any one stooping and about to pick up a stone , there is not much time to stay then"
`` That is true ,"
said the son , `` but what if any one should carry a bit of rock , or ore , ready beforehand in his breast or pocket ?"
`` Where hast thou seen that ?"
`` Among the mountaineers , dear father ; when they go out , they generally take little bits of ore with them"
`` Mountain folks are working folks , and clever folks.
If thou hast been among mountain lads , thou hast seen and learned something , but when thou goest thither beware , for many a sparrow has been brought to a bad end by a mountain boy"
At length the father came to the youngest son : `` Thou , my dear chirping nestling , wert always the silliest and weakest ; stay with me , the world has many rough , wicked birds which have crooked beaks and long claws , and lie in wait for poor little birds and swallow them.
Keep with those of thine own kind , and pick up little spiders and caterpillars from the trees , or the house , and then thou wilt live long in peace"
`` My dear father , he who feeds himself without injury to other people fares well , and no sparrow-hawk , eagle , or kite will hurt him if he specially commits himself and his lawful food , evening and morning , faithfully to person_0 , who is the Creator and Preserver of all forest and village birds , who likewise heareth the cry and prayer of the young ravens , for no sparrow or wren ever falls to the ground except by his will"
`` Where hast thou learned this ?"
The son answered , `` When the great blast of wind tore me away from thee I came to a church , and there during the summer I have picked up the flies and spiders from the windows , and heard this discourse preached.
The Father of all sparrows fed me all the summer through , and kept me from all mischance and from ferocious birds"
`` In sooth , my dear son , if thou takest refuge in the churches and helpest to clear away spiders and buzzing flies , and criest unto person_0 like the young ravens , and commendest thyself to the eternal Creator , all will be well with thee , and that even if the whole world were full of wild malicious birds"
`` He who to person_0 commits his ways , In silence suffers , waits , and prays , Preserves his faith and conscience pure , He is of person_0 's protection sure"
A certain man had a donkey , which had carried the corn-sacks to the mill indefatigably for many a long year ; but his strength was going , and he was growing more and more unfit for work.
Then his master began to consider how he might best save his keep ; but the donkey , seeing that no good wind was blowing , ran away and set out on the road to person_0.
`` There ,"
he thought , `` I can surely be town-musician"
When he had walked some distance , he found a hound lying on the road , gasping like one who had run till he was tired.
`` What are you gasping so for , you big fellow ?"
asked the donkey.
`` Ah ,"
replied the hound , `` as I am old , and daily grow weaker , and no longer can hunt , my master wanted to kill me , so I took to flight ; but now how am I to earn my bread ?"
`` I tell you what ,"
said the donkey , `` I am going to person_0 , and shall be town-musician there ; go with me and engage yourself also as a musician.
I will play the lute , and you shall beat the kettledrum"
The hound agreed , and on they went.
Before long they came to a cat , sitting on the path , with a face like three rainy days ! `` Now then , old shaver , what has gone askew with you ?"
asked the donkey.
`` Who can be merry when his neck is in danger ?"
answered the cat.
`` Because I am now getting old , and my teeth are worn to stumps , and I prefer to sit by the fire and spin , rather than hunt about after mice , my mistress wanted to drown me , so I ran away.
But now good advice is scarce.
Where am I to go ?"
`` Go with us to person_0.
You understand night-music , you can be a town-musician"
The cat thought well of it , and went with them.
After this the three fugitives came to a farm-yard , where the cock was sitting upon the gate , crowing with all his might.
`` Your crow goes through and through one ,"
said the donkey.
`` What is the matter ?"
`` I have been foretelling fine weather , because it is the day on which Our Lady washes the Christ-child 's little shirts , and wants to dry them ,"
said the cock ; `` but guests are coming for Sunday , so the housewife has no pity , and has told the cook that she intends to eat me in the soup to-morrow , and this evening I am to have my head cut off.
Now I am crowing at full pitch while I can"
`` Ah , but red-comb ,"
said the donkey , `` you had better come away with us.
We are going to person_0 ; you can find something better than death everywhere : you have a good voice , and if we make music together it must have some quality !"
The cock agreed to this plan , and all four went on together.
They could not , however , reach the city of person_0 in one day , and in the evening they came to a forest where they meant to pass the night.
The donkey and the hound laid themselves down under a large tree , the cat and the cock settled themselves in the branches ; but the cock flew right to the top , where he was most safe.
Before he went to sleep he looked round on all four sides , and thought he saw in the distance a little spark burning ; so he called out to his companions that there must be a house not far off , for he saw a light.
The donkey said , `` If so , we had better get up and go on , for the shelter here is bad"
The hound thought that a few bones with some meat on would do him good too ! So they made their way to the place where the light was , and soon saw it shine brighter and grow larger , until they came to a well-lighted robber 's house.
The donkey , as the biggest , went to the window and looked in.
`` What do you see , my grey-horse ?"
asked the cock.
`` What do I see ?"
answered the donkey ; `` a table covered with good things to eat and drink , and robbers sitting at it enjoying themselves"
`` That would be the sort of thing for us ,"
said the cock.
`` Yes , yes ; ah , how I wish we were there !"
said the donkey.
Then the animals took counsel together how they should manage to drive away the robbers , and at last they thought of a plan.
The donkey was to place himself with his fore-feet upon the window-ledge , the hound was to jump on the donkey 's back , the cat was to climb upon the dog , and lastly the cock was to fly up and perch upon the head of the cat.
When this was done , at a given signal , they began to perform their music together : the donkey brayed , the hound barked , the cat mewed , and the cock crowed ; then they burst through the window into the room , so that the glass clattered ! At this horrible din , the robbers sprang up , thinking no otherwise than that a ghost had come in , and fled in a great fright out into the forest.
The four companions now sat down at the table , well content with what was left , and ate as if they were going to fast for a month.
As soon as the four minstrels had done , they put out the light , and each sought for himself a sleeping-place according to his nature and to what suited him.
The donkey laid himself down upon some straw in the yard , the hound behind the door , the cat upon the hearth near the warm ashes , and the cock perched himself upon a beam of the roof ; and being tired from their long walk , they soon went to sleep.
When it was past midnight , and the robbers saw from afar that the light was no longer burning in their house , and all appeared quiet , the captain said , `` We ought not to have let ourselves be frightened out of our wits ;"
and ordered one of them to go and examine the house.
The messenger finding all still , went into the kitchen to light a candle , and , taking the glistening fiery eyes of the cat for live coals , he held a lucifer-match to them to light it.
But the cat did not understand the joke , and flew in his face , spitting and scratching.
He was dreadfully frightened , and ran to the back-door , but the dog , who lay there sprang up and bit his leg ; and as he ran across the yard by the straw-heap , the donkey gave him a smart kick with its hind foot.
The cock , too , who had been awakened by the noise , and had become lively , cried down from the beam , `` Cock-a-doodle-doo !"
Then the robber ran back as fast as he could to his captain , and said , `` Ah , there is a horrible witch sitting in the house , who spat on me and scratched my face with her long claws ; and by the door stands a man with a knife , who stabbed me in the leg ; and in the yard there lies a black monster , who beat me with a wooden club ; and above , upon the roof , sits the judge , who called out , ` Bring the rogue here to me ! ' so I got away as well as I could"
After this the robbers did not trust themselves in the house again ; but it suited the four musicians of person_0 so well that they did not care to leave it any more.
And the mouth of him who last told this story is still warm"
WHO knows the world will never feel surprise , When men are duped by artful women 's eyes ; Though death his weapon freely will unfold ; Love 's pranks , we find , are ever ruled by gold.
To vain coquettes I doubtless here allude ; But spite of arts with which they 're oft endued ; I hope to show -LRB- our honor to maintain , -RRB- We can , among a hundred of the train , Catch one at least , and play some cunning trick : -- For instance , take blithe person_1 's wily nick , Who gained -LRB- old soldier-like -RRB- his ardent aim , And gratis got an avaricious dame.
LOOK well at this , ye heroes of the sword , Howe'er with wily freaks your heads be stored , Beyond a doubt , at court I now could find , A host of lovers of the person_1 kind.
To person_0 's so often went our wight , The wife at length became his sole delight , Whose youth and beauty were by all confessed ; But , ` midst these charms , such av ` rice she possessed , The warmest love was checked -- a thing not rare , In modern times at least , among the FAIR.
` Tis true , as I 've already said , with such Sighs naught avail , and promises not much ; Without a purse , who wishes should express , Would vainly hope to gain a soft caress.
The god of love no other charm employs , Then cards , and dress , and pleasure 's cheering joys ; From whose gay shops more cuckolds we behold , Than heroes sallied from Troy 's horse of old.
BUT to our lady 's humor let 's adhere ; Sighs passed for naught : they entered not her ear ; 'Twas speaking only would the charmer please , The reader , without doubt , my meaning sees ; Gay person_1 plainly spoke , and named a sum A hundred pounds , she listened : -- was o ` ercome.
OUR wight the cash by person_0 was lent ; And then the husband to the country went , Without suspecting that his loving mate , Designed with horns to ornament his pate.
THE money artful person_1 gave the dame , While friends were round who could observe the same ; Here , said the spark , a hundred pounds receive , ` Tis for your spouse : -- the cash with you I leave.
The lady fancied what the swain had said , Was policy , and to concealment led.
NEXT morn our belle regaled the arch gallant , Fulfilled his promise : -- and his eager want.
Day after day he followed up the game ; For cash he took , and int ` rest on the same ; Good payers get , we always may conclude , Full measure served , whatever is pursued.
WHEN person_0 returned , our crafty wight , Before the wife addressed her spouse at sight ; Said he the cash I 've to your lady paid , Not having -LRB- as I feared -RRB- required its aid ; To save mistakes , pray cross it in your book ; The lady , thunderstruck , with terror shook ; Allowed the payment ; 'twas a case too clear ; In truth for character she ` gan to fear.
But most howe'er she grudged the surplus joy , Bestowed on such a vile , deceitful boy.
THE loss was doubtless great in ev ` ry view Around the town the wicked person_1 flew ; In all the streets , at every house to tell , How nicely he had trick 'd the greedy belle.
To blame him useless ` twere you must allow ; The French such frolicks readily avow"
HOW weak is man ! how changeable his mind ! His promises are naught , too oft we find ; I vowed -LRB- I hope in tolerable verse , -RRB- Again no idle story to rehearse.
And whence this promise ? -- Not two days ago ; I 'm quite confounded ; better I should know : A rhymer hear then , who himself can boast , Quite steady for -- a minute at the most.
The pow ` rs above could PRUDENCE ne'er design ; For those who fondly court the SISTERS NINE.
Some means to please they 've got , you will confess ; person_0 none with certainty the charm possess.
If , howsoever , I were doomed to find Such lines as fully would content the mind : Though I should fail in matter , still in art ; I might contrive some pleasure to impart.
LET 'S see what we are able to obtain : -- A bachelor resided in Touraine.
A sprightly youth , who oft the maids beset , And liked to prattle to the girls he met , With sparkling eyes , white teeth , and easy air , Plain russet petticoat and flowing hair , Beside a rivulet , while Io round , With little bell that gave a tinkling sound , On herbs her palate gratified at will , And gazed and played , and fondly took her fill.
AMONG the rustic nymphs our spark perceived A charming girl , for whom his bosom heaved ; Too young , however , to feel the poignant smart , By Cupid oft inflicted on the heart.
I will not say thirteen 's an age unfit The contrary most fully I admit ; The LAW supposes -LRB- such its prudent fears -RRB- Maturity at still more early years ; person_0 this apparently refers to towns , While LOVE was born for groves , and lawns , and downs.
THE youth exerted ev ` ry art to please ; person_0 all in vain : he only seemed to teaze : Whate'er he said , however nicely graced , Ill-humour , inexperience , or distaste , Induced the belle , unlearned in Cupid 's book ; To treat his passion with a froward look.
BELIEVING ev ` ry artifice in love Was tolerated by the pow ` rs above , One eve he turned a heifer from the rest ; Conducted by the girl his thoughts possessed ; The others left , not counted by the fair , -LRB- Youth seldom shows the necessary care , -RRB- With easy , loit ` ring steps the cottage sought , Where ev ` ry night they usually were brought.
HER mother , more experienced than the maid , Observed , that from the cattle one had strayed ; The girl was scolded much , and sent to find The heifer indiscreetly left behind.
Fair Isabella gave a vent to tears ; Invoked sweet echo to disperse her fears : Solicited with fervent , piercing cry , To tell her where lorn Io she might spy , Whose little bell the spark deprived of sound ; When he withdrew her from the herd around.
THE lover now the tinkling metal shook ; The path that t ` wards it led the charmer took.
The well known note was pleasing to her ear ; Without suspecting treachery was near , She followed to a wood , both deep and large , In hopes at least she might regain her charge.
GUESS her surprise , good reader , when she heard , A lover 's voice , who would not be deterred.
Said he , fair maid whene'er the heart 's on fire , ` Tis all permitted that can quench desire.
On this , with piercing cries she rent the air ; person_0 no one came : -- she sunk to dire despair.
YE beauteous dames avoid the Sylvan shade ; Dread dangers solitary woods pervade"
In a certain mill lived an old miller who had neither wife nor child , and three apprentices served under him.
As they had been with him several years , he one day said to them , `` I am old , and want to sit in the chimney-corner , go out , and whichsoever of you brings me the best horse home , to him will I give the mill , and in return for it he shall take care of me till my death"
The third of the boys was , however , the drudge , who was looked on as foolish by the others ; they begrudged the mill to him , and afterwards he would not have it.
Then all three went out together , and when they came to the village , the two said to stupid Hans , `` Thou mayst just as well stay here , as long as thou livest thou wilt never get a horse"
Hans , however , went with them , and when it was night they came to a cave in which they lay down to sleep.
The two sharp ones waited until Hans had fallen asleep , then they got up , and went away leaving him where he was.
And they thought they had done a very clever thing , but it was certain to turn out ill for them.
When the sun arose , and Hans woke up , he was lying in a deep cavern.
He looked around on every side and exclaimed , `` Oh , heavens , where am I ?"
Then he got up and clambered out of the cave , went into the forest , and thought , `` Here I am quite alone and deserted , how shall I obtain a horse now ?"
Whilst he was thus walking full of thought , he met a small tabby-cat which said quite kindly , `` Hans , where are you going ?"
`` Alas , thou canst not help me"
`` I well know your desire ,"
said the cat.
`` You wish to have a beautiful horse.
Come with me , and be my faithful servant for seven years long , and then I will give you one more beautiful than any you have ever seen in your whole life"
`` Well , this is a wonderful cat !"
thought Hans , `` but I am determined to see if she is telling the truth"
So she took him with her into her enchanted castle , where there were nothing but cats who were her servants.
They leapt nimbly upstairs and downstairs , and were merry and happy.
In the evening when they sat down to dinner , three of them had to make music.
One played the bassoon , the other the fiddle , and the third put the trumpet to his lips , and blew out his cheeks as much as he possibly could.
When they had dined , the table was carried away , and the cat said , `` Now , Hans , come and dance with me"
`` No ,"
said he , `` I wo n't dance with a pussy cat.
I have never done that yet"
`` Then take him to bed ,"
said she to the cats.
So one of them lighted him to his bed-room , one pulled his shoes off , one his stockings , and at last one of them blew out the candle.
Next morning they returned and helped him out of bed , one put his stockings on for him , one tied his garters , one brought his shoes , one washed him , and one dried his face with her tail.
`` That feels very soft !"
said Hans.
He , however , had to serve the cat , and chop some wood every day , and to do that , he had an axe of silver , and the wedge and saw were of silver and the mallet of copper.
So he chopped the wood small ; stayed there in the house and had good meat and drink , but never saw anyone but the tabby-cat and her servants.
Once she said to him , `` Go and mow my meadow , and dry the grass ,"
and gave him a scythe of silver , and a whetstone of gold , but bade him deliver them up again carefully.
So Hans went thither , and did what he was bidden , and when he had finished the work , he carried the scythe , whetstone , and hay to the house , and asked if it was not yet time for her to give him his reward.
`` No ,"
said the cat , `` you must first do something more for me of the same kind.
There is timber of silver , carpenter 's axe , square , and everything that is needful , all of silver , with these build me a small house"
Then Hans built the small house , and said that he had now done everything , and still he had no horse.
Nevertheless the seven years had gone by with him as if they were six months.
The cat asked him if he would like to see her horses ? `` Yes ,"
said Hans.
Then she opened the door of the small house , and when she had opened it , there stood twelve horses , such horses , so bright and shining , that his heart rejoiced at the sight of them.
And now she gave him to eat and drink , and said , `` Go home , I will not give thee thy horse away with thee ; but in three days ' time I will follow thee and bring it"
So Hans set out , and she showed him the way to the mill.
She had , however , never once given him a new coat , and he had been obliged to keep on his dirty old smock-frock , which he had brought with him , and which during the seven years had everywhere become too small for him.
When he reached home , the two other apprentices were there again as well , and each of them certainly had brought a horse with him , but one of them was a blind one , and the other lame.
They asked Hans where his horse was.
`` It will follow me in three days ' time"
Then they laughed and said , `` Indeed , stupid Hans , where wilt thou get a horse ?"
`` It will be a fine one !"
Hans went into the parlor , but the miller said he should not sit down to table , for he was so ragged and torn , that they would all be ashamed of him if any one came in.
So they gave him a mouthful of food outside , and at night , when they went to rest , the two others would not let him have a bed , and at last he was forced to creep into the goose-house , and lie down on a little hard straw.
In the morning when he awoke , the three days had passed , and a coach came with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to see them ! and a servant brought a seventh as well , which was for the poor miller 's boy.
And a magnificent princess alighted from the coach and went into the mill , and this princess was the little tabby-cat whom poor Hans had served for seven years.
She asked the miller where the miller 's boy and drudge was ? Then the miller said , `` We can not have him here in the mill , for he is so ragged ; he is lying in the goose-house"
Then the King 's daughter said that they were to bring him immediately.
So they brought him out , and he had to hold his little smock-frock together to cover himself.
The servants unpacked splendid garments , and washed him and dressed him , and when that was done , no King could have looked more handsome.
Then the maiden desired to see the horses which the other apprentices had brought home with them , and one of them was blind and the other lame.
So she ordered the servant to bring the seventh horse , and when the miller saw it , he said that such a horse as that had never yet entered his yard.
`` And that is for the third miller 's boy ,"
said she.
`` Then he must have the mill ,"
said the miller , but the King 's daughter said that the horse was there , and that he was to keep his mill as well , and took her faithful Hans and set him in the coach , and drove away with him.
They first drove to the little house which he had built with the silver tools , and behold it was a great castle , and everything inside it was of silver and gold ; and then she married him , and he was rich , so rich that he had enough for all the rest of his life.
After this , let no one ever say that anyone who is silly can never become a person of importance"
First Story.
There was once a little child whose mother gave her every afternoon a small bowl of milk and bread , and the child seated herself in the yard with it.
When she began to eat however , a snake came creeping out of a crevice in the wall , dipped its little head in the dish , and ate with her.
The child had pleasure in this , and when she was sitting there with her little dish and the snake did not come at once , she cried , `` Snake , snake , come swiftly Hither come , thou tiny thing , Thou shalt have thy crumbs of bread , Thou shalt refresh thyself with milk"
Then the snake came in haste , and enjoyed its food.
Moreover it showed gratitude , for it brought the child all kinds of pretty things from its hidden treasures , bright stones , pearls , and golden playthings.
The snake , however , only drank the milk , and left the bread-crumbs alone.
Then one day the child took its little spoon and struck the snake gently on its head with it , and said , `` Eat the bread-crumbs as well , little thing"
The mother , who was standing in the kitchen , heard the child talking to someone , and when she saw that she was striking a snake with her spoon , ran out with a log of wood , and killed the good little creature.
From that time forth , a change came over the child.
As long as the snake had eaten with her , she had grown tall and strong , but now she lost her pretty rosy cheeks and wasted away.
It was not long before the funeral bird began to cry in the night , and the redbreast to collect little branches and leaves for a funeral garland , and soon afterwards the child lay on her bier.
Second Story.
An orphan child was sitting on the town walls spinning , when she saw a snake coming out of a hole low down in the wall.
Swiftly she spread out beside this one of the blue silk handkerchiefs which snakes have such a strong liking for , and which are the only things they will creep on.
As soon as the snake saw it , it went back , then returned , bringing with it a small golden crown , laid it on the handkerchief , and then went away again.
The girl took up the crown , it glittered and was of delicate golden filagree work.
It was not long before the snake came back for the second time , but when it no longer saw the crown , it crept up to the wall , and in its grief smote its little head against it as long as it had strength to do so , until at last it lay there dead.
If the girl had but left the crown where it was , the snake would certainly have brought still more of its treasures out of the hole.
Third Story.
A snake cries , `` Huhu , huhu"
A child says , `` Come out"
The snake comes out , then the child inquires about her little sister : `` Hast thou not seen little Red-stockings ?"
The snake says , `` No"
`` Neither have I"
`` Then I am like you.
Huhu , huhu , huhu"
There was once on a time a poor peasant called Crabb , who drove with two oxen a load of wood to the town , and sold it to a doctor for two thalers.
When the money was being counted out to him , it so happened that the doctor was sitting at table , and when the peasant saw how daintily he ate and drank , his heart desired what he saw , and he would willingly have been a doctor too.
So he remained standing a while , and at length inquired if he too could not be a doctor.
`` Oh , yes ,"
said the doctor , `` that is soon managed"
`` What must I do ?"
asked the peasant.
`` In the first place buy thyself an A B C book of the kind which has a cock on the frontispiece : in the second , turn thy cart and thy two oxen into money , and get thyself some clothes , and whatsoever else pertains to medicine ; thirdly , have a sign painted for thyself with the words , `` I am Doctor Knowall ,"
and have that nailed up above thy house-door"
The peasant did everything that he had been told to do.
When he had doctored people awhile , but not long , a rich and great lord had some money stolen.
Then he was told about Doctor Knowall who lived in such and such a village , and must know what had become of the money.
So the lord had the horses put in his carriage , drove out to the village , and asked Crabb if he were Doctor Knowall ? Yes , he was , he said.
Then he was to go with him and bring back the stolen money.
`` Oh , yes , but Grethe , my wife , must go too"
The lord was willing and let both of them have a seat in the carriage , and they all drove away together.
When they came to the nobleman 's castle , the table was spread , and Crabb was told to sit down and eat.
`` Yes , but my wife , Grethe , too ,"
said he , and he seated himself with her at the table.
And when the first servant came with a dish of delicate fare , the peasant nudged his wife , and said , `` Grethe , that was the first ,"
meaning that was the servant who brought the first dish.
The servant , however , thought he intended by that to say , `` That is the first thief ,"
and as he actually was so , he was terrified , and said to his comrade outside , `` The doctor knows all : we shall fare ill , he said I was the first"
The second did not want to go in at all , but was forced.
So when he went in with his dish , the peasant nudged his wife , and said , `` Grethe , that is the second"
This servant was just as much alarmed , and he got out.
The third did not fare better , for the peasant again said , `` Grethe , that is the third"
The fourth had to carry in a dish that was covered , and the lord told the doctor that he was to show his skill , and guess what was beneath the cover.
The doctor looked at the dish , had no idea what to say , and cried , `` Ah , poor Crabb"
When the lord heard that , he cried , `` There ! he knows it , he knows who has the money !"
On this the servants looked terribly uneasy , and made a sign to the doctor that they wished him to step outside for a moment.
When therefore he went out , all four of them confessed to him that they had stolen the money , and said that they would willingly restore it and give him a heavy sum into the bargain , if he would not denounce them , for if he did they would be hanged.
They led him to the spot where the money was concealed.
With this the doctor was satisfied , and returned to the hall , sat down to the table , and said , `` My lord , now will I search in my book where the gold is hidden"
The fifth servant , however , crept into the stove to hear if the doctor knew still more.
The Doctor , however , sat still and opened his A B C book , turned the pages backwards and forwards , and looked for the cock.
As he could not find it immediately he said , `` I know you are there , so you had better show yourself"
Then the fellow in the stove thought that the doctor meant him , and full of terror , sprang out , crying , `` That man knows everything !"
Then Dr.
Knowall showed the count where the money was , but did not say who had stolen it , and received from both sides much money in reward , and became a renowned man"
A poor man had so many children that he had already asked every one in the world to be godfather , and when still another child was born , no one else was left whom he could invite.
He knew not what to do , and , in his perplexity , he lay down and fell asleep.
Then he dreamt that he was to go outside the gate , and ask the first person who met him to be godfather.
When he awoke , he determined to obey his dream , and went outside the gate , and asked the first person who came up to him to be godfather.
The stranger presented him with a little glass of water , and said , `` This is a wonderful water , with it thou canst heal the sick , only thou must see where Death is standing.
If he is standing by the patient 's head , give the patient some of the water and he will be healed , but if Death is standing by his feet , all trouble will be in vain , for the sick man must die"
From this time forth , the man could always say whether a patient could be saved or not , and became famous for his skill , and earned a great deal of money.
Once he was called in to the child of the King , and when he entered , he saw death standing by the child 's head and cured it with the water , and he did the same a second time , but the third time Death was standing by its feet , and then he knew the child was forced to die.
Once the man thought he would visit the godfather , and tell him how he had succeeded with the water.
But when he entered the house , it was such a strange establishment ! On the first flight of stairs , the broom and shovel were disputing , and knocking each other about violently.
He asked them , `` Where does the godfather live ?"
The broom replied , `` One flight of stairs higher up"
When he came to the second flight , he saw a heap of dead fingers lying.
He asked , `` Where does the godfather live ?"
One of the fingers replied , `` One flight of stairs higher"
On the third flight lay a heap of dead heads , which again directed him to the flight beyond.
On the fourth flight , he saw fishes on the fire , which frizzled in the pans and baked themselves.
They , too , said , `` One flight of stairs higher"
And when he had ascended the fifth , he came to the door of a room and peeped through the keyhole , and there he saw the godfather who had a pair of long horns.
When he opened the door and went in , the godfather got into bed in a great hurry and covered himself up.
Then said the man , `` Sir godfather , what a strange household you have ! When I came to your first flight of stairs , the shovel and broom were quarreling , and beating each other violently"
`` How stupid you are !"
said the godfather.
`` That was the boy and the maid talking to each other"
`` But on the second flight I saw dead fingers lying"
`` Oh , how silly you are ! Those were some roots of scorzonera"
`` On the third flight lay a heap of dead men 's heads"
`` Foolish man , those were cabbages"
`` On the fourth flight , I saw fishes in a pan , which were hissing and baking themselves"
When he had said that , the fishes came and served themselves up.
`` And when I got to the fifth flight , I peeped through the keyhole of a door , and there , godfather , I saw you , and you had long , long horns"
`` Oh , that is a lie !"
The man became alarmed , and ran out , and if he had not , who knows what the godfather would have done to him"
There was once a wonderful musician , who went quite alone through a forest and thought of all manner of things , and when nothing was left for him to think about , he said to himself , `` Time is beginning to pass heavily with me here in the forest , I will fetch hither a good companion for myself"
Then he took his fiddle from his back , and played so that it echoed through the trees.
It was not long before a wolf came trotting through the thicket towards him.
`` Ah , here is a wolf coming ! I have no desire for him !"
said the musician ; but the wolf came nearer and said to him , `` Ah , dear musician , how beautifully thou dost play.
I should like to learn that , too"
`` It is soon learned ,"
the musician replied , `` thou hast only to do all that I bid thee"
`` Oh , musician ,"
said the wolf , `` I will obey thee as a scholar obeys his master"
The musician bade him follow , and when they had gone part of the way together , they came to an old oak-tree which was hollow inside , and cleft in the middle.
`` Look ,"
said the musician , `` if thou wilt learn to fiddle , put thy fore paws into this crevice"
The wolf obeyed , but the musician quickly picked up a stone and with one blow wedged his two paws so fast that he was forced to stay there like a prisoner.
`` Stay there until I come back again ,"
said the musician , and went his way.
After a while he again said to himself , `` Time is beginning to pass heavily with me here in the forest , I will fetch hither another companion ,"
and took his fiddle and again played in the forest.
It was not long before a fox came creeping through the trees towards him.
`` Ah , there 's a fox coming !"
said the musician.
`` I have no desire for him"
The fox came up to him and said , `` Oh , dear musician , how beautifully thou dost play ! I should like to learn that too"
`` That is soon learned ,"
said the musician.
`` Thou hast only to do everything that I bid thee"
`` Oh , musician ,"
then said the fox , `` I will obey thee as a scholar obeys his master"
`` Follow me ,"
said the musician ; and when they had walked a part of the way , they came to a footpath , with high bushes on both sides of it.
There the musician stood still , and from one side bent a young hazel-bush down to the ground , and put his foot on the top of it , then he bent down a young tree from the other side as well , and said , `` Now little fox , if thou wilt learn something , give me thy left front paw"
The fox obeyed , and the musician fastened his paw to the left bough.
`` Little fox ,"
said he , `` now reach me thy right paw"
and he tied it to the right bough.
When he had examined whether they were firm enough , he let go , and the bushes sprang up again , and jerked up the little fox , so that it hung struggling in the air.
`` Wait there till I come back again ,"
said the musician , and went his way.
Again he said to himself , `` Time is beginning to pass heavily with me here in the forest , I will fetch hither another companion ,"
so he took his fiddle , and the sound echoed through the forest.
Then a little hare came springing towards him.
`` Why , a hare is coming ,"
said the musician , `` I do not want him"
`` Ah , dear musician ,"
said the hare , `` how beautifully thou dost fiddle ; I too , should like to learn that"
`` That is soon learned ,"
said the musician , `` thou hast only to do everything that I bid thee"
`` Oh , musician ,"
replied the little hare , `` I will obey thee as a scholar obeys his master"
They went a part of the way together until they came to an open space in the forest , where stood an aspen tree.
The musician tied a long string round the little hare 's neck , the other end of which he fastened to the tree.
`` Now briskly , little hare , run twenty times round the tree !"
cried the musician , and the little hare obeyed , and when it had run round twenty times , it had twisted the string twenty times round the trunk of the tree , and the little hare was caught , and let it pull and tug as it liked , it only made the string cut into its tender neck.
`` Wait there till I come back ,"
said the musician , and went onwards.
The wolf , in the meantime , had pushed and pulled and bitten at the stone , and had worked so long that he had set his feet at liberty and had drawn them once more out of the cleft.
Full of anger and rage he hurried after the musician and wanted to tear him to pieces.
When the fox saw him running , he began to lament , and cried with all his might , `` Brother wolf , come to my help , the musician has betrayed me !"
The wolf drew down the little tree , bit the cord in two , and freed the fox , who went with him to take revenge on the musician.
They found the tied-up hare , whom likewise they delivered , and then they all sought the enemy together.
The musician had once more played his fiddle as he went on his way , and this time he had been more fortunate.
The sound reached the ears of a poor wood-cutter , who instantly , whether he would or no , gave up his work and came with his hatchet under his arm to listen to the music.
`` At last comes the right companion ,"
said the musician , `` for I was seeking a human being , and no wild beast"
And he began and played so beautifully and delightfully that the poor man stood there as if bewitched , and his heart leaped with gladness.
And as he thus stood , the wolf , the fox , and the hare came up , and he saw well that they had some evil design.
So he raised his glittering axe and placed himself before the musician , as if to say , `` Whoso wishes to touch him let him beware , for he will have to do with me !"
Then the beasts were terrified and ran back into the forest.
The musician , however , played once more to the man out of gratitude , and then went onwards"
There was once a poor man and a poor woman who had nothing but a little cottage , and who earned their bread by fishing , and always lived from hand to mouth.
But it came to pass one day when the man was sitting by the water-side , and casting his net , that he drew out a fish entirely of gold.
As he was looking at the fish , full of astonishment , it began to speak and said , `` Hark you , fisherman , if you will throw me back again into the water , I will change your little hut into a splendid castle"
Then the fisherman answered , `` Of what use is a castle to me , if I have nothing to eat ?"
The gold fish continued , `` That shall be taken care of , there will be a cupboard in the castle in which , when you open it , shall be dishes of the most delicate meats , and as many of them as you can desire"
`` If that be true ,"
said the man , `` then I can well do you a favor"
`` Yes ,"
said the fish , `` there is , however , the condition that you shall disclose to no one in the world , whosoever he may be , whence your good luck has come , if you speak but one single word , all will be over"
Then the man threw the wonderful fish back again into the water , and went home.
But where his hovel had formerly stood , now stood a great castle.
He opened wide his eyes , entered , and saw his wife dressed in beautiful clothes , sitting in a splendid room , and she was quite delighted , and said , `` Husband , how has all this come to pass ? It suits me very well"
`` Yes ,"
said the man , `` it suits me too , but I am frightfully hungry , just give me something to eat"
Said the wife , `` But I have got nothing and do n't know where to find anything in this new house"
`` There is no need of your knowing ,"
said the man , `` for I see yonder a great cupboard , just unlock it"
When she opened it , there stood cakes , meat , fruit , wine , quite a bright prospect.
Then the woman cried joyfully , `` What more can you want , my dear ?"
and they sat down , and ate and drank together.
When they had had enough , the woman said , `` But husband , whence come all these riches ?"
`` Alas ,"
answered he , `` do not question me about it , for I dare not tell you anything ; if I disclose it to any one , then all our good fortune will fly"
`` Very good ,"
said she , `` if I am not to know anything , then I do not want to know anything"
However , she was not in earnest ; she never rested day or night , and she goaded her husband until in his impatience he revealed that all was owing to a wonderful golden fish which he had caught , and to which in return he had given its liberty.
And as soon as the secret was out , the splendid castle with the cupboard immediately disappeared , they were once more in the old fisherman 's hut , and the man was obliged to follow his former trade and fish.
But fortune would so have it , that he once more drew out the golden fish.
`` Listen ,"
said the fish , `` if you will throw me back into the water again , I will once more give you the castle with the cupboard full of roast and boiled meats ; only be firm , for your life 's sake do n't reveal from whom you have it , or you will lose it all again !"
`` I will take good care ,"
answered the fisherman , and threw the fish back into the water.
Now at home everything was once more in its former magnificence , and the wife was overjoyed at their good fortune , but curiosity left her no peace , so that after a couple of days she began to ask again how it had come to pass , and how he had managed to secure it.
The man kept silence for a short time , but at last she made him so angry that he broke out , and betrayed the secret.
In an instant the castle disappeared , and they were back again in their old hut.
`` Now you have got what you want ,"
said he ; `` and we can gnaw at a bare bone again"
`` Ah ,"
said the woman , `` I had rather not have riches if I am not to know from whom they come , for then I have no peace"
The man went back to fish , and after a while he chanced to draw out the gold fish for a third time.
`` Listen ,"
said the fish , `` I see very well that I am fated to fall into your hands , take me home and cut me into six pieces ; give your wife two of them to eat , two to your horse and bury two of them in the ground , then they will bring you a blessing"
The fisherman took the fish home with him , and did as it had bidden him.
It came to pass , however , that from the two pieces that were"
One day a young prince was out practising archery with the son of his father 's chief vizier , when one of the arrows accidentally struck the wife of a merchant , who was walking about in an upper room of a house close by.
The prince aimed at a bird that was perched on the window - sill of that room , and had not the slightest idea that anybody was at hand , or he would not have shot in that direction.
Consequently , not knowing what had happened , he and the vizier 's son walked away , the vizier 's son chaffing him because he had missed the bird.
Presently the merchant went to ask his wife about something , and found her lying , to all appearance , dead in the middle of the room , and an arrow fixed in the ground within half a yard of her head.
Supposing that she was dead , he rushed to the window and shrieked , `` Thieves thieves ! They have killed my wife"
The neighbors quickly gathered , and the servants came running upstairs to see what was the matter.
It happened that the woman had fainted , and that there was only a very slight wound in her breast where the arrow had grazed.
As soon as the woman recovered her senses she told them that two young men had passed by the place with their bows and arrows , and that one of them had most deliberately aimed at her as she stood by the window.
On hearing this the merchant went to the king , and told him what had taken place.
His Majesty was much enraged at such audacious wickedness , and swore that most terrible punishment should be visited on the offender if he could be discovered.
He ordered the merchant to go back and ascertain whether his wife could recognize the young men if she saw them again.
`` Oh yes ,"
replied the woman , `` I should know them again among all the people in the city"
`` Then ,"
said the king , when the merchant brought back this reply , `` to - morrow I will cause all the male inhabitants of this city to pass before your house , and your wife will stand at the window and watch for the man who did this wanton deed"
A royal proclamation was issued to this effect.
So the next day all the men and boys of the city , from the age of ten years upwards , assembled and marched by the house of the merchant.
By chance -LRB- for they both had been excused from obeying this order -RRB- the king 's son and the vizier 's son were also in the company , and passed by in the crowd.
They came to see the tamasha.
As soon as these two appeared in front of the merchant 's window they were recognized by the merchant 's wife , and at once reported to the king.
`` My own son and the son of my chief vizier !"
exclaimed the king , who had been present from the commencement.
`` What examples for the people ! Let them both be executed"
`` Not so , your Majesty ,"
said the vizier , `` I beseech you Let the facts of the case be thoroughly investigated.
How is it ?"
he continued , turning to the two young men.
`` Why have you done this cruel thing ?"
`` I shot an arrow at a bird that was sitting on the sill of an open window in yonder house , and missed ,"
answered the prince.
`` I suppose the arrow struck the merchant 's wife.
Had I known that she or anybody had been near I should not have shot in that direction"
`` We will speak of this later on ,"
said the king , on hearing this answer.
`` Dismiss the people.
Their presence is no longer needed"
In the evening his Majesty and the vizier had a long and earnest talk about their two sons.
The king wished both of them to be executed ; but the vizier suggested that the prince should be banished from the country.
This was finally agreed to.
Accordingly , on the following morning , a little company of soldiers escorted the prince out of the city.
When they reached the last custom - house the vizier 's son overtook them.
He had come with all haste , bringing with him four bags of muhrs on four horses.
`` I am come ,"
he said , throwing his arms round the prince 's neck , `` because I can not let you go alone.
We have lived together , we will be exiled together , and we will die together.
Turn me not back , if you love me"
`` Consider ,"
the prince answered , `` what you are doing.
All kinds of trial may be before me.
Why should you leave your home and country to be with me ?"
`` Because I love you ,"
he said , `` and shall never be happy without you"
So the two friends walked along hand in hand as fast as they could to get out of the country , and behind them marched the soldiers and the horses with their valuable burdens.
On reaching a place on the borders of the king 's dominions the prince gave the soldiers some gold , and ordered them to return.
The soldiers took the money and left ; they did not , however , go very far , but hid themselves behind rocks and stones , and waited till they were quite sure that the prince did not intend to come back.
On and on the exiles walked , till they arrived at a certain village , where they determined to spend the night under one of the big trees of the place.
The prince made preparations for a fire , and arranged the few articles of bedding that they had with them , while the vizier 's son went to the baniya and the baker and the butcher to get something for their dinner.
For some reason he was delayed ; perhaps the tsut was not quite ready , or the baniya had not got all the spices prepared.
After waiting half an hour the prince became impatient , and rose up and walked about.
He saw a pretty , clear little brook running along not far from their resting-place , and hearing that its source was not far distant , he started off to find it.
The source was a beautiful lake , which at that time was covered with the magnificent lotus flower and other water plants.
The prince sat down on the bank , and being thirsty took up some of the water in his hand.
Fortunately he looked into his hand before drinking , and there , to his great astonishment , he saw reflected whole and clear the image of a beautiful fairy.
He looked round , hoping to see the reality ; but seeing no person , he drank the water , and put out his hand to take some more.
Again he saw the reflection in the water which was in his palm.
He looked around as before , and this time discovered a fairy sitting by the bank on the opposite side of the lake.
On seeing her he fell so madly in love with her that he dropped down in a swoon.
When the vizier 's son returned , and found the fire lighted , the horses securely fastened , and the bags of muhrs lying altogether in a heap , but no prince , he did not know what to think.
He waited a little while , and then shouted ; but not getting any reply , he got up and went to the brook.
There he came across the footmarks of his friend.
Seeing these , he went back at once for the money and the horses , and bringing them with him , he tracked the prince to the lake , where he found him lying to all appearance dead.
`` Alas ! alas !"
he cried , and lifting up the prince , he poured some water over his head and face.
`` Alas ! my brother , what is this ? Oh ! do not die and leave me thus.
Speak , speak ! I can not bear this !"
In a few minutes the prince , revived by the water , opened his eyes , and looked about wildly.
`` Thank God !"
exclaimed the vizier 's son.
`` But what is the matter , brother ?"
`` Go away ,"
replied the prince.
`` I do n't want to say anything to you , or to see you.
Go away"
`` Come , come ; let us leave this place.
Look , I have brought some food for you , and horses , and everything.
Let us eat and depart"
`` Go alone ,"
replied the prince.
`` Never ,"
said the vizier 's son.
`` What has happened to suddenly estrange you from me ? A little while ago we were brethren , but now you detest the sight of me"
`` I have looked upon a fairy ,"
the prince said.
`` But a moment I saw her face ; for when she noticed that I was looking at her she covered her face with lotus petals.
Oh , how beautiful she was ! And while I gazed she took out of her bosom an ivory box , and held it up to me.
Then I fainted.
Oh ! if you can get me that fairy for my wife , I will go anywhere with you"
`` Oh , brother ,"
said the vizier 's son , `` you have indeed seen a fairy.
She is a fairy of the fairies.
This is none other than person_0 of the Ivory City.
I know this from the signs that she gave you.
From her covering her face with lotus petals I learn her name , and from her showing you the ivory box I learn where she lives.
Be patient , and rest assured that I will arrange your marriage with her"
When the prince heard these encouraging words he felt much comforted , rose up , and ate , and then went away gladly with his friend.
On the way they met two men.
These two men belonged to a family of robbers.
There were eleven of them altogether.
One , an elder sister , stayed at home and cooked the food , and the other ten -- all brothers -- went out , two and two , and walked about the four different ways that ran through that part of the country , robbing those travellers who could not resist them , and inviting others , who were too powerful for two of them to manage , to come and rest at their house , where the whole family attacked them and stole their goods.
These thieves lived in a kind of tower , which had several strong-rooms in it , and under it was a great pit , wherein they threw the corpses of the poor unfortunates who chanced to fall into their power.
The two men came forward , and , politely accosting them , begged them to come and stay at their house for the night.
`` It is late ,"
they said , `` and there is not another village within several miles"
`` Shall we accept this good man 's invitation , brother ?"
asked the prince.
The vizier 's son frowned slightly in token of disapproval ; but the prince was tired , and thinking that it was only a whim of his friend 's , he said to the men , `` Very well.
It is very kind of you to ask us"
So they all four went to the robbers ' tower.
Seated in a room , with the door fastened on the outside , the two travellers bemoaned their fate.
`` It is no good groaning ,"
said the vizier 's son.
`` I will climb to the window , and see whether there are any means of escape.
Yes ! yes !"
he whispered , when he had reached the window-hole.
`` Below there is a ditch surrounded by a high wall.
I will jump down and reconnoitre.
You stay here , and wait till I return"
Presently he came back and told the prince that he had seen a most ugly woman , whom he supposed was the robbers ' housekeeper.
She had agreed to release them on the promise of her marriage with the prince.
So the woman led the way out of the enclosure by a secret door.
`` But where are the horses and the goods ?"
the vizier 's son inquired.
`` You can not bring them ,"
the woman said.
`` To go out by any other way would be to thrust oneself into the grave"
`` All right , then ; they also shall go out by this door.
I have a charm , whereby I can make them thin or fat"
So the vizier 's son fetched the horses without any person knowing it , and repeating the charm , he made them pass through the narrow doorway like pieces of cloth , and when they were all outside restored them to their former condition.
He at once mounted his horse and laid hold of the halter of one of the other horses , and then beckoning to the prince to do likewise , he rode off.
The prince saw his opportunity , and in a moment was riding after him , having the woman behind him.
Now the robbers heard the galloping of the horses , and ran out and shot their arrows at the prince and his companions.
And one of the arrows killed the woman , so they had to leave her behind.
On , on they rode , until they reached a village where they stayed the night.
The following morning they were off again , and asked for Ivory City from every passer-by.
At length they came to this famous city , and put up at a little hut that belonged to an old woman , from whom they feared no harm , and with whom , therefore , they could abide in peace and comfort.
At first the old woman did not like the idea of these travellers staying in her house , but the sight of a muhr , which the prince dropped in the bottom of a cup in which she had given him water , and a present of another muhr from the vizier 's son , quickly made her change her mind.
She agreed to let them stay there for a few days.
As soon as her work was over the old woman came and sat down with her lodgers.
The vizier 's son pretended to be utterly ignorant of the place and people.
`` Has this city a name ?"
he asked the old woman.
`` Of course it has , you stupid.
Every little village , much more a city , and such a city as this , has a name"
`` What is the name of this city ?"
`` Ivory City.
Do n't you know that ? I thought the name was known all over the world"
On the mention of the name Ivory City the prince gave a deep sigh.
The vizier 's son looked as much as to say `` Keep quiet , or you 'll discover the secret"
`` Is there a king of this country ?"
continued the vizier 's son.
`` Of course there is , and a queen , and a princess"
`` What are their names ?"
`` The name of the princess is person_0 , and the name of the queen --"
The vizier 's son interrupted the old woman by turning to look at the prince , who was staring like a madman.
`` Yes ,"
he said to him afterwards , `` we are in the right country.
We shall see the beautiful princess"
One morning the two travellers noticed the old woman 's most careful toilette : how careful she was in the arrangement of her hair and the set of her kasabah and puts.
`` Who is coming ?"
said the vizier 's son.
`` Nobody ,"
the old woman replied.
`` Then where are you going ?"
`` I am going to see my daughter , who is a servant of the Princess person_0.
I see her and the princess every day.
I should have gone yesterday , if you had not been here and taken up all my time"
`` Ah-h-h ! Be careful not to say anything about us in the hearing of the princess"
The vizier 's son asked her not to speak about them at the palace , hoping that , because she had been told not to do so , she would mention their arrival , and thus the princess would be informed of their coming.
On seeing her mother the girl pretended to be very angry.
`` Why have you not been for two days ?"
she asked.
`` Because , my dear ,"
the old woman answered , `` two young travellers , a prince and the son of some great vizier , have taken up their abode in my hut , and demand so much of my attention.
It is nothing but cooking and cleaning , and cleaning and cooking , all day long.
I ca n't understand the men ,"
she added ; `` one of them especially appears very stupid.
He asked me the name of this country and the name of the king.
Now where can these men have come from , that they do not know these things ? However , they are very great and very rich.
They each give me a muhr every morning and every evening"
After this the old woman went and repeated almost the same words to the princess , on the hearing of which the princess beat her severely ; and threatened her with a severer punishment if she ever again spoke of the strangers before her.
In the evening , when the old woman had returned to her hut , she told the vizier 's son how sorry she was that she could not help breaking her promise , and how the princess had struck her because she mentioned their coming and all about them.
`` Alas ! alas !"
said the prince , who had eagerly listened to every word.
`` What , then , will be her anger at the sight of a man ?"
`` Anger ?"
said the vizier 's son , with an astonished air.
`` She would be exceedingly glad to see one man.
I know this.
In this treatment of the old woman I see her request that you will go and see her during the coming dark fortnight"
`` Heaven be praised !"
the prince exclaimed.
The next time the old woman went to the palace person_0 called one of her servants and ordered her to rush into the room while she was conversing with the old woman ; and if the old woman asked what was the matter , she was to say that the king 's elephants had gone mad , and were rushing about the city and bazaar in every direction , and destroying everything in their way.
The servant obeyed , and the old woman , fearing lest the elephants should go and push down her hut and kill the prince and his friend , begged the princess to let her depart.
Now person_0 had obtained a charmed swing , that landed whoever sat on it at the place wherever they wished to be.
`` Get the swing ,"
she said to one of the servants standing by.
When it was brought she bade the old woman step into it and desire to be at home.
The old woman did so , and was at once carried through the air quickly and safely to her hut , where she found her two lodgers safe and sound.
`` Oh !"
she cried , `` I thought that both of you would be killed by this time.
The royal elephants have got loose and are running about wildly.
When I heard this I was anxious about you.
So the princess gave me this charmed swing to return in.
But come , let us get outside before the elephants arrive and batter down the place"
`` Do n't believe this ,"
said the vizier 's son.
`` It is a mere hoax.
They have been playing tricks with you"
`` You will soon have your heart 's desire ,"
he whispered aside to the prince.
`` These things are signs"
Two days of the dark fortnight had elapsed , when the prince and the vizier 's son seated themselves in the swing , and wished themselves within the grounds of the palace.
In a moment they were there , and there too was the object of their search standing by one of the palace gates , and longing to see the prince quite as much as he was longing to see her.
Oh , what a happy meeting it was ! `` At last ,"
said person_0 , `` I have seen my beloved , my husband"
`` A thousand thanks to Heaven for bringing me to you ,"
said the prince.
Then the prince and person_0 betrothed themselves to one another and parted , the one for the hut and the other for the palace , both of them feeling happier than they had ever been before.
Henceforth the prince visited person_0 every day and returned to the hut every night.
One morning person_0 begged him to stay with her always.
She was constantly afraid of some evil happening to him -- perhaps robbers would slay him , or sickness attack him , and then she would be deprived of him.
She could not live without seeing him.
The prince showed her that there was no real cause for fear , and said that he felt he ought to return to his friend at night , because he had left his home and country and risked his life for him ; and , moreover , if it had not been for his friend 's help he would never have met with her.
person_0 for the time assented , but she determined in her heart to get rid of the vizier 's son as soon as possible.
A few days after this conversation she ordered one of her maids to make a pilaw.
She gave special directions that a certain poison was to be mixed into it while cooking , and as soon as it was ready the cover was to be placed on the saucepan , so that the poisonous steam might not escape.
When the pilaw was ready she sent it at once by the hand of a servant to the vizier 's son with this message `` person_0 , the princess , sends you an offering in the name of her dead uncle"
On receiving the present the vizier 's son thought that the prince had spoken gratefully of him to the princess , and therefore she had thus remembered him.
Accordingly he sent back his salam and expressions of thankfulness.
When it was dinner-time he took the saucepan of pilaw and went out to eat it by the stream.
Taking off the lid , he threw it aside on the grass and then washed his hands.
During the minute or so that he was performing these ablutions , the green grass under the cover of the saucepan turned quite yellow.
He was astonished , and suspecting that there was poison in the pilaw , he took a little and threw it to some crows that were hopping about.
The moment the crows ate what was thrown to them they fell down dead.
`` Heaven be praised ,"
exclaimed the vizier 's son , `` who has preserved me from death at this time !"
On the return of the prince that evening the vizier 's son was very reticent and depressed.
The prince noticed this change in him , and asked what was the reason.
`` Is it because I am away so much at the palace ?"
The vizier 's son saw that the prince had nothing to do with the sending of the pilaw , and therefore told him everything.
`` Look here ,"
he said , `` in this handkerchief is some pilaw that the princess sent me this morning in the name of her deceased uncle.
It is saturated with poison.
Thank Heaven , I discovered it in time !"
`` Oh , brother ! who could have done this thing ? Who is there that entertains enmity against you ?"
`` The Princess person_0.
Listen.
The next time you go to see her , I entreat you to take some snow with you ; and just before seeing the princess put a little of it into both your eyes.
It will provoke tears , and person_0 will ask you why you are crying.
Tell her that you weep for the loss of your friend , who died suddenly this morning.
Look ! take , too , this wine and this shovel , and when you have feigned intense grief at the death of your friend , bid the princess to drink a little of the wine.
It is strong , and will immediately send her into a deep sleep.
Then , while she is asleep , heat the shovel and mark her back with it.
Remember to bring back the shovel again , and also to take her pearl necklace.
This done , return.
Now fear not to execute these instructions , because on the fulfilment of them depends your fortune and happiness.
I will arrange that your marriage with the princess shall be accepted by the king , her father , and all the court"
The prince promised that he would do everything as the vizier 's son had advised him ; and he kept his promise.
The following night , on the return of the prince from his visit to person_0 , he and the vizier 's son , taking the horses and bags of muhrs , went to a graveyard about a mile or so distant.
It was arranged that the vizier 's son should act the part of a fakir and the prince the part of the fakir 's disciple and servant.
In the morning , when person_0 had returned to her senses , she felt a smarting pain in her back , and noticed that her pearl necklace was gone.
She went at once and informed the king of the loss of her necklace , but said nothing to him about the pain in her back.
The king was very angry when he heard of the theft , and caused proclamation concerning it to be made throughout all the city and surrounding country.
`` It is well ,"
said the vizier 's son , when he heard of this proclamation.
`` Fear not , my brother , but go and take this necklace , and try to sell it in the bazaar"
The prince took it to a goldsmith and asked him to buy it.
`` How much do you want for it ?"
asked the man.
`` Fifty thousand rupees ,"
the prince replied.
`` All right ,"
said the man ; `` wait here while I go and fetch the money"
The prince waited and waited , till at last the goldsmith returned , and with him the kotwal , who at once took the prince into custody on the charge of stealing the princess 's necklace.
`` How did you get the necklace ?"
the kotwal asked.
`` A fakir , whose servant I am , gave it to me to sell in the bazaar ,"
the prince replied.
`` Permit me , and I will show you where he is"
The prince directed the kotwal and the policeman to the place where he had left the vizier 's son , and there they found the fakir with his eyes shut and engaged in prayer.
Presently , when he had finished his devotions , the kotwal asked him to explain how he had obtained possession of the princess 's necklace.
`` Call the king hither ,"
he replied , `` and then I will tell his Majesty face to face"
On this some men went to the king and told him what the fakir had said.
His Majesty came , and seeing the fakir so solemn and earnest in his devotions , he was afraid to rouse his anger , lest peradventure the displeasure of Heaven should descend on him , and so he placed his hands together in the attitude of a supplicant , and asked , `` How did you get my daughter 's necklace ?"
`` Last night ,"
replied the fakir , `` we were sitting here by this tomb worshipping Khuda , when a ghoul , dressed as a princess , came and exhumed a body that had been buried a few days ago , and began to eat it.
On seeing this I was filled with anger , and beat her back with a shovel , which lay on the fire at the time.
While running away from me her necklace got loose and dropped.
You wonder at these words , but they are not difficult to prove.
Examine your daughter , and you will find the marks of the burn on her back.
Go , and if it is as I say , send the princess to me , and I will punish her"
The king went back to the palace , and at once ordered the princess 's back to be examined.
`` It is so ,"
said the maid-servant ; `` the burn is there"
`` Then let the girl be slain immediately ,"
the king shouted.
`` No , no , your Majesty ,"
they replied.
`` Let us send her to the fakir who discovered this thing , that he may do whatever he wishes with her"
The king agreed , and so the princess was taken to the graveyard.
`` Let her be shut up in a cage , and be kept near the grave whence she took out the corpse ,"
said the fakir.
This was done , and in a little while the fakir and his disciple and the princess were left alone in the graveyard.
Night had not long cast its dark mantle over the scene when the fakir and his disciple threw off their disguise , and taking their horses and luggage , appeared before the cage.
They released the princess , rubbed some ointment over the scars on her back , and then sat her upon one of their horses behind the prince.
Away they rode fast and far , and by the morning were able to rest and talk over their plans in safety.
The vizier 's son showed the princess some of the poisoned pilaw that she had sent him , and asked whether she had repented of her ingratitude.
The princess wept , and acknowledged that he was her greatest helper and friend.
A letter was sent to the chief vizier telling him of all that had happened to the prince and the vizier 's son since they had left their country.
When the vizier read the letter he went and informed the king.
The king caused a reply to be sent to the two exiles , in which he ordered them not to return , but to send a letter to person_0 's father , and inform him of everything.
Accordingly they did this ; the prince wrote the letter at the vizier 's son 's dictation.
On reading the letter person_0 's father was much enraged with his viziers and other officials for not discovering the presence in his country of these illustrious visitors , as he was especially anxious to ingratiate himself in the favor of the prince and the vizier 's son.
He ordered the execution of some of the viziers on a certain date.
`` Come ,"
he wrote back to the vizier 's son , `` and stay at the palace.
And if the prince desires it , I will arrange for his marriage with person_0 as soon as possible"
The prince and the vizier 's son most gladly accepted the invitation , and received a right noble welcome from the king.
The marriage soon took place , and then after a few weeks the king gave them presents of horses and elephants , and jewels and rich cloths , and bade them start for their own land ; for he was sure that the king would now receive them.
The night before they left the viziers and others , whom the king intended to have executed as soon as his visitors had left , came and besought the vizier 's son to plead for them , and promised that they each would give him a daughter in marriage.
He agreed to do so , and succeeded in obtaining their pardon.
Then the prince , with his beautiful bride person_0 , and the vizier 's son , attended by a troop of soldiers , and a large number of camels and horses bearing very much treasure , left for their own land.
In the midst of the way they passed the tower of the robbers , and with the help of the soldiers they razed it to the ground , slew all its inmates , and seized the treasure which they had been amassing there for several years.
At length they reached their own country , and when the king saw his son 's beautiful wife and his magnificent retinue he was at once reconciled , and ordered him to enter the city and take up his abode there.
Henceforth all was sunshine on the path of the prince.
He became a great favorite , and in due time succeeded to the throne , and ruled the country for many , many years in peace and happiness"
The region round the little town of person_2 is very bleak and bare.
The town certainly lies by the sea shore , which is always beautiful , but just there it might be more beautiful than it is : all around are flat fields , and it is a long way to the forest.
But when one is very much at home in a place , one always finds something beautiful , and something that one longs for in the most charming spot in the world that is strange to us.
We confess that , by the utmost boundary of the little town , where some humble gardens skirt the streamlet that falls into the sea , it must be very pretty in summer ; and this was the opinion of the two children from neighbouring houses , who were playing there , and forcing their way through the gooseberry bushes , to get to one another.
In one of the gardens stood an elder tree , and in the other an old willow , and under the latter the children were especially very fond of playing ; they were allowed to play there , though , indeed , the tree stood close beside the stream , and they might easily have fallen into the water.
But the eye of God watches over the little ones ; if it did not , they would be badly off.
And , moreover , they were very careful with respect to the water ; in fact , the boy was so much afraid of it , that they could not lure him into the sea in summer , when the other children were splashing about in the waves.
Accordingly , he was famously jeered and mocked at , and had to bear the jeering and mockery as best he could.
But once person_1 , the neighbour 's little girl , dreamed she was sailing in a boat , and person_0 waded out to join her till the water rose , first to his neck , and afterwards closed over his head , so that he disappeared altogether.
From the time when little person_0 heard of this dream , he would no longer bear the teasing of the other boys.
He might go into the water now , he said , for person_1 had dreamed it.
He certainly never carried the idea into practice , but the dream was his great guide for all that.
Their parents , who were poor people , often took tea together , and person_0 and person_1 played in the gardens and on the high-road , where a row of willows had been planted beside the skirting ditch ; these trees , with their polled tops , certainly did not look beautiful , but they were not put there for ornament , but for use.
The old willow tree in the garden was much handsomer , and therefore the children were fond of sitting under it.
In the town itself there was a great market-place , and at the time of the fair this place was covered with whole streets of tents and booths , containing silk ribbons , boots , and everything that a person could wish for.
There was great crowding , and generally the weather was rainy ; but it did not destroy the fragrance of the honey-cakes and the gingerbread , of which there was a booth quite full ; and the best of it was , that the man who kept this booth came every year to lodge during the fair-time in the dwelling of little person_0 's father.
Consequently there came a present of a bit of gingerbread every now and then , and of course person_1 received her share of the gift.
But , perhaps the most charming thing of all was that the gingerbread dealer knew all sorts of tales , and could even relate histories about his own gingerbread cakes ; and one evening , in particular , he told a story about them which made such a deep impression on the children that they never forgot it ; and for that reason it is perhaps advisable that we should hear it too , more especially as the story is not long.
`` On the shop-board ,"
he said , `` lay two gingerbread cakes , one in the shape of a man with a hat , the other of a maiden without a bonnet ; both their faces were on the side that was uppermost , for they were to be looked at on that side , and not on the other ; and , indeed , most people have a favourable side from which they should be viewed.
On the left side the man wore a bitter almond -- that was his heart ; but the maiden , on the other hand , was honey-cake all over.
They were placed as samples on the shop-board , and remaining there a long time , at last they fell in love with one another , but neither told the other , as they should have done if they had expected anything to come of it"
` He is a man , and therefore he must speak first , ' she thought ; but she felt quite contented , for she knew her love was returned.
`` His thoughts were far more extravagant , as is always the case with a man.
He dreamed that he was a real street boy , that he had four pennies of his own , and that he purchased the maiden , and ate her up.
So they lay on the shop-board for weeks and weeks , and grew dry and hard , but the thoughts of the maiden became ever more gentle and maidenly"
` It is enough for me that I have lived on the same table with him , ' she said , and crack ! she broke in two"
` If she had only known of my love , she would have kept together a little longer , ' he thought.
`` And that is the story , and here they are , both of them ,"
said the baker in conclusion.
`` They are remarkable for their curious history , and for their silent love , which never came to anything.
And there they are for you !"
and , so saying , he gave person_1 the man who was yet entire , and person_0 got the broken maiden ; but the children had been so much impressed by the story that they could not summon courage to eat the lovers up.
On the following day they went out with them to the churchyard , and sat down by the church wall , which is covered , winter and summer , with the most luxuriant ivy as with a rich carpet.
Here they stood the two cake figures up in the sunshine among the green leaves , and told the story to a group of other children ; they told them of the silent love which led to nothing.
It was called _ love _ because the story was so lovely , on that they all agreed.
But when they turned to look again at the gingerbread pair , a big boy , out of mischief , had eaten up the broken maiden.
The children cried about this , and afterwards -- probably that the poor lover might not be left in the world lonely and desolate -- they ate him up too ; but they never forgot the story.
The children were always together by the elder tree and under the willow , and the little girl sang the most beautiful songs with a voice that was clear as a bell.
person_0 , on the other hand , had not a note of music in him , but he knew the words of the songs , and that , at least , was something.
The people of person_2 , even to the rich wife of the fancy-shop keeper , stood still and listened when person_1 sang.
`` She has a very sweet voice , that little girl ,"
they said.
Those were glorious days , but they could not last for ever.
The neighbors were neighbors no longer.
The little maiden 's mother was dead , and the father intended to marry again , in the capital , where he had been promised a living as a messenger , which was to be a very lucrative office.
And the neighbors separated regretfully , the children weeping heartily , but the parents promised that they should at least write to one another once a year.
And person_0 was bound apprentice to a shoemaker , for the big boy could not be allowed to run wild any longer ; and moreover he was confirmed.
Ah , how gladly on that day of celebration would he have been in Copenhagen with little person_1 ! but he remained in person_2 , and had never yet been to Copenhagen , though the little town is only five Danish miles distant from the capital ; but far across the bay , when the sky was clear , person_0 had seen the towers in the distance , and on the day of his confirmation he could distinctly see the golden cross on the principal church glittering in the sun.
Ah , how often his thoughts were with person_1 ! Did she think of him ? Yes.
Towards Christmas there came a letter from her father to the parents of person_0 , to say that they were getting on very well in Copenhagen , and especially might person_1 look forward to a brilliant future on the strength of her fine voice.
She had been engaged in the theater in which people sing , and was already earning some money , out of which she sent her dear neighbors of person_2 a dollar for the merry Christmas Eve.
They were to drink her health , she had herself added in a postscript , and in the same postscript there stood further , `` A kind greeting to person_0"
The whole family wept : and yet all this was very pleasant ; those were joyful tears that they shed.
person_0 's thoughts had been occupied every day with person_1 ; and now he knew that she also thought of him : and the nearer the time came when his apprenticeship would be over , the more clearly did it appear to him that he was very fond of person_1 , and that she must be his wife ; and when he thought of this , a smile came upon his lips , and he drew the thread twice as fast as before , and pressed his foot hard against the knee-strap.
He ran the awl far into his finger , but he did not care for that.
He determined not to play the dumb lover , as the two gingerbread cakes had done : the story should teach him a lesson.
And now he was a journeyman , and his knapsack was packed ready for his journey : at length , for the first time in his life , he was to go to Copenhagen , where a master was already waiting for him.
How glad person_1 would be ! She was now seventeen years old , and he nineteen.
Already in person_2 he had wanted to buy a gold ring for her ; but he recollected that such things were to be had far better in Copenhagen.
And now he took leave of his parents , and on a rainy day , late in the autumn , went forth on foot out of the town of his birth.
The leaves were falling down from the trees , and he arrived at his new master 's in the metropolis wet to the skin.
Next Sunday he was to pay a visit to person_1 's father.
The new journeyman 's clothes were brought forth , and the new hat from person_2 was put on , which became person_0 very well , for till this time he had only worn a cap.
And he found the house he sought , and mounted flight after flight of stairs until he became almost giddy.
It was terrible to him to see how people lived piled up one over the other in the dreadful city.
Everything in the room had a prosperous look , and person_1 's father received him very kindly.
To the new wife he was a stranger , but she shook hands with him , and gave him some coffee.
`` person_1 will be glad to see you ,"
said the father : `` you have grown quite a nice young man.
You shall see her presently.
She is a girl who rejoices my heart , and , please God , she will rejoice it yet more.
She has her own room now , and pays us rent for it"
And the father knocked quite politely at the door , as if he were a visitor , and then they went in.
But how pretty everything was in that room ! such an apartment was certainly not to be found in all person_2 : the queen herself could not be more charmingly lodged.
There were carpets , there were window curtains quite down to the floor , and around were flowers and pictures , and a mirror into which there was almost danger that a visitor might step , for it was as large as a door ; and there was even a velvet chair.
person_0 saw all this at a glance : and yet he saw nothing but person_1.
She was a grown maiden , quite different from what person_0 had fancied her , and much more beautiful.
In all person_2 there was not a girl like her.
How graceful she was , and with what an odd unfamiliar glance she looked at person_0 ! But that was only for a moment , and then she rushed towards him as if she would have kissed him.
She did not really do so , but she came very near it.
Yes , she was certainly rejoiced at the arrival of the friend of her youth ! The tears were actually in her eyes ; and she had much to say , and many questions to put concerning all , from person_0 's parents down to the elder tree and the willow , which she called Elder-mother and Willow-father , as if they had been human beings ; and indeed they might pass as such , just as well as the gingerbread cakes ; and of these she spoke too , and of their silent love , and how they had lain upon the shop-board and split in two -- and then she laughed very heartily ; but the blood mounted into person_0 's cheeks , and his heart beat thick and fast.
No , she had not grown proud at all.
And it was through her -- he noticed it well -- that her parents invited him to stay the whole evening with them ; and she poured out the tea and gave him a cup with her own hands ; and afterwards she took a book and read aloud to them , and it seemed to person_0 that what she read was all about himself and his love , for it matched so well with his thoughts ; and then she sang a simple song , but through her singing it became like a history , and seemed to be the outpouring of her very heart.
Yes , certainly she was fond of person_0.
The tears coursed down his cheeks -- he could not restrain them , nor could he speak a single word : he seemed to himself as if he were struck dumb ; and yet she pressed his hand , and said , `` You have a good heart , person_0 -- remain always as you are now"
That was an evening of matchless delight to person_0 ; to sleep after it was impossible , and accordingly person_0 did not sleep.
At parting , person_1 's father had said , `` Now , you wo n't forget us altogether ! Do n't let the whole winter go by without once coming to see us again ;"
and therefore he could very well go again the next Sunday , and resolved to do so.
But every evening when working hours were over -- and they worked by candlelight there -- person_0 went out through the town : he went into the street in which person_1 lived , and looked up at her window ; it was almost always lit up , and one evening he could see the shadow of her face quite plainly on the curtain -- and that was a grand evening for him.
His master 's wife did not like his gallivanting abroad every evening , as she expressed it ; and she shook her head ; but the master only smiled.
`` He is only a young fellow ,"
he said.
But person_0 thought to himself : `` On Sunday I shall see her , and I shall tell her how completely she reigns in my heart and soul , and that she must be my little wife.
I know I am only a poor journeyman shoemaker , but I shall work and strive -- yes , I shall tell her so.
Nothing comes of silent love : I have learned that from the cakes"
And Sunday came round , and person_0 sallied forth ; but , unluckily , they were all invited out for that evening , and were obliged to tell him so.
person_1 pressed his hand and said , `` Have you ever been to the theater ? You must go once.
I shall sing on Wednesday , and if you have time on that evening , I will send you a ticket ; my father knows where your master lives"
How kind that was of her ! And on Wednesday at noon he received a sealed paper , with no words written in it ; but the ticket was there , and in the evening person_0 went to the theater for the first time in his life.
And what did he see ? He saw person_1 , and how charming and how beautiful she looked ! She was certainly married to a stranger , but that was all in the play -- something that was only make-believe , as person_0 knew very well.
If it had been real , he thought , she would never have had the heart to send him a ticket that he might go and see it.
And all the people shouted and applauded , and person_0 cried out `` hurrah !"
Even the king smiled at person_1 , and seemed to delight in her.
Ah , how small person_0 felt ! but then he loved her so dearly , and thought that she loved him too ; but it was for the man to speak the first word , as the gingerbread maiden in the child 's story had taught him : and there was a great deal for him in that story.
So soon as Sunday came , he went again.
He felt as if he were going into a church.
person_1 was alone , and received him -- it could not have happened more fortunately.
`` It is well that you are come ,"
she said.
`` I had an idea of sending my father to you , only I felt a presentiment that you would be here this evening ; for I must tell you that I start for France on Friday : I must go there , if I am to become efficient"
It seemed to person_0 as if the whole room were whirling round and round with him.
He felt as if his heart would presently burst : no tear rose to his eyes , but still it was easy to see how sorrowful he was.
`` You honest , faithful soul !"
she exclaimed ; and these words of hers loosened person_0 's tongue.
He told her how constantly he loved her , and that she must become his wife ; and as he said this , he saw person_1 change color and turn pale.
She let his hand fall , and answered , seriously and mournfully , `` person_0 , do not make yourself and me unhappy.
I shall always be a good sister to you , one in whom you may trust , but I shall never be anything more"
And she drew her white hand over his hot forehead.
`` Heaven gives us strength for much ,"
she said , `` if we only endeavor to do our best"
At that moment the stepmother came into the room ; and person_1 said quickly , `` person_0 is quite inconsolable because I am going away.
Come , be a man ,"
she continued , and laid her hand upon his shoulder ; and it seemed as if they had been talking of the journey , and nothing else.
`` You are a child ,"
she added ; `` but now you must be good and reasonable , as you used to be under the willow tree , when we were both children"
But person_0 felt as if the whole world had slid out of its course , and his thoughts were like a loose thread fluttering to and fro in the wind.
He stayed , though he could not remember if she had asked him to stay ; and she was kind and good , and poured out his tea for him , and sang to him.
It had not the old tone , and yet it was wonderfully beautiful , and made his heart feel ready to burst.
And then they parted.
person_0 did not offer her his hand , but she seized it , and said , `` Surely you will shake hands with your sister at parting , old playfellow !"
And she smiled through the tears that were rolling over her cheeks , and she repeated the word `` brother"
-- and certainly there was good consolation in that -- and thus they parted.
She sailed to France , and person_0 wandered about the muddy streets of Copenhagen.
The other journeymen in the workshop asked him why he went about so gloomily , and told him he should go and amuse himself with them , for he was a young fellow.
And they went with him to the dancing-rooms.
He saw many handsome girls there , but certainly not one like person_1 ; and here , where he thought to forget her , she stood more vividly than ever before the eyes of his soul.
`` Heaven gives us strength for a great deal , if we only try to do our best ,"
she had said ; and holy thoughts came into his mind , and he folded his hands.
The violins played , and the girls danced round in a circle ; and he was quite startled , for it seemed to him as if he were in a place to which he ought not to have brought person_1 -- for she was there with him , in his heart ; and accordingly he went out.
He ran through the streets , and passed by the house where she had dwelt : it was dark there , dark everywhere , and empty , and lonely.
The world went on its course , but person_0 pursued his lonely way , unheedingly.
The winter came , and the streams were frozen.
Everything seemed to be preparing for a burial.
But when spring returned , and the first steamer was to start , a longing seized him to go away , far , far into the world , but not to France.
So he packed his knapsack , and wandered far into the German land , from city to city , without rest or peace ; and it was not till he came to the glorious old city of Nuremberg that he could master his restless spirit ; and in Nuremberg , therefore , he decided to remain.
Nuremberg is a wonderful old city , and looks as if it were cut out of an old picture-book.
The streets seem to stretch themselves along just as they please.
The houses do not like standing in regular ranks.
Gables with little towers , arabesques , and pillars , start out over the pathway , and from the strange peaked roofs water-spouts , formed like dragons or great slim dogs , extend far over the street.
Here in the market-place stood person_0 , with his knapsack on his back.
He stood by one of the old fountains that are adorned with splendid bronze figures , scriptural and historical , rising up between the gushing jets of water.
A pretty servant-maid was just filling her pails , and she gave person_0 a refreshing draught ; and as her hand was full of roses , she gave him one of the flowers , and he accepted it as a good omen.
From the neighbouring church the strains of the organ were sounding : they seemed to him as familiar as the tones of the organ at home at person_2 ; and he went into the great cathedral.
The sunlight streamed in through the stained glass windows , between the two lofty slender pillars.
His spirit became prayerful , and peace returned to his soul.
And he sought and found a good master in Nuremberg , with whom he stayed , and in whose house he learned the German language.
The old moat round the town has been converted into a number of little kitchen gardens ; but the high walls are standing yet , with their heavy towers.
The ropemaker twists his ropes on a gallery or walk built of wood , inside the town wall , where elder bushes grow out of the clefts and cracks , spreading their green twigs over the little low houses that stand below ; and in one of these dwelt the master with whom person_0 worked ; and over the little garret window at which person_0 sat the elder waved its branches.
Here he lived through a summer and a winter ; but when the spring came again he could bear it no longer.
The elder was in blossom , and its fragrance reminded him so of home , that he fancied himself back in the garden at person_2 ; and therefore person_0 went away from his master , and dwelt with another , farther in the town , over whose house no elder bush grew.
His workshop was quite close to one of the old stone bridges , by a low water-mill , that rushed and foamed always.
Without , rolled the roaring stream , hemmed in by houses , whose old decayed gables looked ready to topple down into the water.
No elder grew here -- there was not even a flower-pot with its little green plant ; but just opposite the workshop stood a great old willow tree , that seemed to cling fast to the house , for fear of being carried away by the water , and which stretched forth its branches over the river , just as the willow at person_2 spread its arms across the streamlet by the gardens there.
Yes , he had certainly gone from the `` Elder-mother"
to the `` Willow-father"
The tree here had something , especially on moonlight evenings , that went straight to his heart -- and that something was not in the moonlight , but in the old tree itself.
Nevertheless , he could not remain.
Why not ? Ask the willow tree , ask the blooming elder ! And therefore he bade farewell to his master in Nuremberg , and journeyed onward.
To no one did he speak of person_1 -- in his secret heart he hid his sorrow ; and he thought of the deep meaning in the old childish story of the two cakes.
Now he understood why the man had a bitter almond in his breast -- he himself felt the bitterness of it ; and person_1 , who was always so gentle and kind , was typified by the honey-cake.
The strap of his knapsack seemed so tight across his chest that he could scarcely breathe ; he loosened it , but was not relieved.
He saw but half the world around him ; the other half he carried about him , and within himself.
And thus it stood with him.
Not till he came in sight of the high mountains did the world appear freer to him ; and now his thoughts were turned without , and tears came into his eyes.
The Alps appeared to him as the folded wings of the earth ; how if they were to unfold themselves , and display their variegated pictures of black woods , foaming waters , clouds , and masses of snow ? At the last day , he thought , the world will lift up its great wings , and mount upwards towards the sky , and burst like a soap-bubble in the glance of the Highest ! `` Ah ,"
sighed he , `` that the Last Day were come !"
Silently he wandered through the land , that seemed to him as an orchard covered with soft turf.
From the wooden balconies of the houses the girls who sat busy with their lace-making nodded at him ; the summits of the mountains glowed in the red sun of the evening ; and when he saw the green lakes gleaming among the dark trees , he thought of the coast by the Bay of person_2 , and there was a longing in his bosom , but it was pain no more.
There where the Rhine rolls onward like a great billow , and bursts , and is changed into snow-white , gleaming , cloud-like masses , as if clouds were being created there , with the rainbow fluttering like a loose band above them ; there he thought of the water-mill at person_2 , with its rushing , foaming water.
Gladly would he have remained in the quiet Rhenish town , but here too were too many elder trees and willows , and therefore he journeyed on , over the high , mighty mountains , through shattered walls of rock , and on roads that clung like swallows ' nests to the mountain-side.
The waters foamed on in the depths , the clouds were below him , and he strode on over thistles , Alpine roses , and snow , in the warm summer sun ; and saying farewell to the lands of the North , he passed on under the shade of blooming chestnut trees , and through vineyards and fields of maize.
The mountains were a wall between him and all his recollections ; and he wished it to be so.
Before him lay a great glorious city which they called _ Milano _ , and here he found a German master who gave him work.
They were an old pious couple , in whose workshop he now labored.
And the two old people became quite fond of the quiet journeyman , who said little , but worked all the more , and led a pious Christian life.
To himself also it seemed as if Heaven had lifted the heavy burden from his heart.
His favorite pastime was to mount now and then upon the mighty marble church , which seemed to him to have been formed of the snow of his native land , fashioned into roofs , and pinnacles , and decorated open halls : from every corner and every point the white statues smiled upon him.
Above him was the blue sky , below him the city and the wide-spreading Lombard plains , and towards the north the high mountains clad with perpetual snow ; and he thought of the church at person_2 , with its red , ivy-covered walls , but he did not long to go thither : here , beyond the mountains , he would be buried.
He had dwelt here a year , and three years had passed away since he left his home , when one day his master took him into the city , not to the circus where riders exhibited , but to the opera , where was a hall worth seeing.
There were seven storeys , from each of which beautiful silken curtains hung down , and from the ground to the dizzy height of the roof sat elegant ladies , with bouquets of flowers in their hands , as if they were at a ball , and the gentlemen were in full dress , and many of them decorated with gold and silver.
It was as bright there as in the brilliant sunshine , and the music rolled gloriously through the building.
Everything was much more splendid than in the theater at Copenhagen , but then person_1 had been there , and -- could it be ? Yes , it was like magic -- she was here also ! for the curtain rose , and person_1 appeared , dressed in silk and gold , with a crown upon her head : she sang as he thought none but angels could sing , and came far forward , quite to the front of the stage , and smiled as only person_1 could smile , and looked straight down at person_0.
Poor person_0 seized his master 's hand , and called out aloud , `` person_1 !"
but no one heard but the master , who nodded his head , for the loud music sounded above everything.
`` Yes , yes , her name is person_1 ,"
said the master ; and he drew forth a printed playbill , and showed person_0 her name -- for the full name was printed there.
No , it was not a dream ! All the people applauded , and threw wreaths and flowers to her , and every time she went away they called her back , so that she was always going and coming.
In the street the people crowded round her carriage , and drew it away in triumph.
person_0 was in the foremost row , and shouted as joyously as any ; and when the carriage stopped before her brilliantly lighted house , person_0 stood close beside the door of the carriage.
It flew open , and she stepped out : the light fell upon her dear face , as she smiled , and made a kindly gesture of thanks , and appeared deeply moved.
person_0 looked straight into her face , and she looked into his , but she did not know him.
A man , with a star glittering on his breast , gave her his arm -- and it was whispered about that the two were engaged.
Then person_0 went home and packed his knapsack.
He was determined to go back to his own home , to the elder and the willow tree -- ah , under the willow tree ! A whole life is sometimes lived through in a single hour.
The old couple begged him to remain , but no words could induce him to stay.
It was in vain they told him that winter was coming , and pointed out that snow had already fallen in the mountains ; he said he could march on , with his knapsack on his back , in the wake of the slow-moving carriage , for which they would have to clear a path.
So he went away towards the mountains , and marched up them and down them.
His strength was giving way , but still he saw no village , no house ; he marched on towards the north.
The stars gleamed above him , his feet stumbled , and his head grew dizzy.
Deep in the valley stars were shining too , and it seemed as if there were another sky below him.
He felt he was ill.
.
The stars below him became more and more numerous , and glowed brighter and brighter , and moved to and fro.
It was a little town whose lights beamed there ; and when he understood that , he exerted the remains of his strength , and at last reached the shelter of a humble inn.
That night and the whole of the following day he remained there , for his body required rest and refreshment.
It was thawing ; there was rain in the valley.
But early on the second morning came a man with an organ , who played a tune of home ; and now person_0 could stay no longer.
He continued his journey towards the north , marching onward for many days with haste and hurry , as if he were trying to get home before all were dead there ; but to no one did he speak of his longing , for no one would have believed in the sorrow of his heart , the deepest a human heart can feel.
Such a grief is not for the world , for it is not amusing ; nor is it even for friends ; and moreover he had no friends -- a stranger , he wandered through strange lands towards his home in the north.
It was evening.
He was walking on the public high-road.
The frost began to make itself felt , and the country soon became flatter , containing mere field and meadow.
By the road-side grew a great willow tree.
Everything reminded him of home , and he sat down under the tree : he felt very tired , his head began to nod , and his eyes closed in slumber , but still he was conscious that the tree stretched its arms above him ; and in his wandering fancy the tree itself appeared to be an old , mighty man -- it seemed as if the `` Willow-father"
himself had taken up his tired son in his arms , and were carrying him back into the land of home , to the bare bleak shore of person_2 , to the garden of his childhood.
Yes , he dreamed it was the willow tree of person_2 that had traveled out into the world to seek him , and that now had found him , and had led him back into the little garden by the streamlet , and there stood person_1 , in all her splendor , with the golden crown on her head , as he had seen her last , and she called out `` welcome"
to him.
And before him stood two remarkable shapes , which looked much more human than he remembered them to have been in his childhood : they had changed also , but they were still the two cakes that turned the right side towards him , and looked very well.
`` We thank you ,"
they said to person_0.
`` You have loosened our tongues , and have taught us that thoughts should be spoken out freely , or nothing will come of them ; and now something has indeed come of it -- we are betrothed"
Then they went hand in hand through the streets of person_2 , and they looked very respectable in every way : there was no fault to find with _ them _.
And they went on , straight towards the church , and person_0 and person_1 followed them ; they also were walking hand in hand ; and the church stood there as it had always stood , with its red walls , on which the green ivy grew ; and the great door of the church flew open , and the organ sounded , and they walked up the long aisle of the church.
`` Our master first ,"
said the cake-couple , and made room for person_1 and person_0 , who knelt by the altar , and she bent her head over him , and tears fell from her eyes , but they were icy cold , for it was the ice around her heart that was melting -- melting by his strong love ; and the tears fell upon his burning cheeks , and he awoke , and was sitting under the old willow tree in the strange land , in the cold wintry evening : an icy hail was falling from the clouds and beating on his face.
`` That was the most delicious hour of my life !"
he said , `` and it was but a dream.
Oh , let me dream again !"
And he closed his eyes once more , and slept and dreamed.
Towards morning there was a great fall of snow.
The wind drifted the snow over him , but he slept on.
The villagers came forth to go to church , and by the road-side sat a journeyman.
He was dead -- frozen to death under the willow tree !"
Not far from the clear stream Gudenau , in North Jutland , in the forest which extends by its banks and far into the country , a great ridge of land rises and stretches along like a wall through the wood.
By this ridge , westward , stands a farmhouse , surrounded by poor land ; the sandy soil is seen through the spare rye and wheat-ears that grow upon it.
Some years have elapsed since the time of which we speak.
The people who lived here cultivated the fields , and moreover kept three sheep , a pig , and two oxen ; in fact , they supported themselves quite comfortably , for they had enough to live on if they took things as they came.
Indeed , they could have managed to save enough to keep two horses ; but , like the other peasants of the neighborhood , they said , `` The horse eats itself up"
-- that is to say , it eats as much as it earns.
Jeppe-Jaens cultivated his field in summer.
In the winter he made wooden shoes , and then he had an assistant , a journeyman , who understood as well as he himself did how to make the wooden shoes strong , and light , and graceful.
They carved shoes and spoons , and that brought in money.
It would have been wronging the Jeppe-Jaenses to call them poor people.
Little person_1 , a boy seven years old , the only child of the family , would sit by , looking at the workmen , cutting at a stick , and occasionally cutting his finger.
But one day person_1 succeeded so well with two pieces of wood , that they really looked like little wooden shoes ; and these he wanted to give to little person_0.
And who was little person_0 ? She was the boatman 's daughter , and was graceful and delicate as a gentleman 's child ; had she been differently dressed , no one would have imagined that she came out of the hut on the neighbouring heath.
There lived her father , who was a widower , and supported himself by carrying firewood in his great boat out of the forest to the estate of Silkeborg , with its great eel-pond and eel-weir , and sometimes even to the distant little town of Randers.
He had no one who could take care of little person_0 , and therefore the child was almost always with him in his boat , or in the forest among the heath plants and barberry bushes.
Sometimes , when he had to go as far as the town , he would bring little person_0 , who was a year younger than person_1 , to stay at the Jeppe-Jaenses.
person_1 and person_0 agreed very well in every particular : they divided their bread and berries when they were hungry , they dug in the ground together for treasures , and they ran , and crept , and played about everywhere.
And one day they ventured together up the high ridge , and a long way into the forest ; once they found a few snipes ' eggs there , and that was a great event for them.
person_1 had never been on the heath where person_0 's father lived , nor had he ever been on the river.
But even this was to happen ; for person_0 's father once invited him to go with them ; and on the evening before the excursion , he followed the boatman over the heath to the house of the latter.
Next morning early , the two children were sitting high up on the pile of firewood in the boat , eating bread and whistleberries.
person_0 's father and his assistant propelled the boat with staves.
They had the current with them , and swiftly they glided down the stream , through the lakes it forms in its course , and which sometimes seemed shut in by reeds and water plants , though there was always room for them to pass , and though the old trees bent quite forward over the water , and the old oaks bent down their bare branches , as if they had turned up their sleeves and wanted to show their knotty naked arms.
Old alder trees , which the stream had washed away from the bank , clung with their fibrous roots to the bottom of the stream , and looked like little wooded islands.
The water-lilies rocked themselves on the river.
It was a splendid excursion ; and at last they came to the great eel-weir , where the water rushed through the flood-gates ; and person_1 and person_0 thought this was beautiful to behold.
In those days there was no manufactory there , nor was there any town ; only the old great farmyard , with its scanty fields , with few servants and a few head of cattle , could be seen there ; and the rushing of the water through the weir and the cry of the wild ducks were the only signs of life in Silkeborg.
After the firewood had been unloaded , the father of person_0 bought a whole bundle of eels and a slaughtered sucking-pig , and all was put into a basket and placed in the stern of the boat.
Then they went back again up the stream ; but the wind was favourable , and when the sails were hoisted , it was as good as if two horses had been harnessed to the boat.
When they had arrived at a point in the stream where the assistant-boatman dwelt , a little way from the bank , the boat was moored , and the two men landed , after exhorting the children to sit still.
But the children did not do that ; or at least they obeyed only for a very short time.
They must be peeping into the basket in which the eels and the sucking-pig had been placed , and they must needs pull the sucking-pig out , and take it in their hands , and feel and touch it all over ; and as both wanted to hold it at the same time , it came to pass that they let it fall into the water , and the sucking-pig drifted away with the stream -- and here was a terrible event ! person_1 jumped ashore , and ran a little distance along the bank , and person_0 sprang after him.
`` Take me with you !"
she cried.
And in a few minutes they were deep in the thicket , and could no longer see either the boat or the bank.
They ran on a little farther , and then person_0 fell down on the ground and began to cry ; but person_1 picked her up.
`` Follow me !"
he cried.
`` Yonder lies the house"
But the house was not yonder.
They wandered on and on , over the dry , rustling , last year 's leaves , and over fallen branches that crackled beneath their feet.
Soon they heard a loud piercing scream.
They stood still and listened , and presently the scream of an eagle sounded through the wood.
It was an ugly scream , and they were frightened at it ; but before them , in the thick wood , the most beautiful blueberries grew in wonderful profusion.
They were so inviting , that the children could not do otherwise than stop ; and they lingered for some time , eating the blueberries till they had quite blue mouths and blue cheeks.
Now again they heard the cry they had heard before.
`` We shall get into trouble about the pig ,"
said person_0.
`` Come , let us go to our house ,"
said person_1 ; `` it is here in the wood"
-LRB- Illustration : IB AND CHRISTINE MEET THE GIPSY.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa And they went forward.
They presently came to a wood , but it did not lead them home ; and darkness came on , and they were afraid.
The wonderful stillness that reigned around was interrupted now and then by the shrill cries of the great horrid owl and of the birds that were strange to them.
At last they both lost themselves in a thicket.
person_0 cried , and person_1 cried too ; and after they had bemoaned themselves for a time , they threw themselves down on the dry leaves , and went fast asleep.
The sun was high in the heavens when the two children awoke.
They were cold ; but in the neighborhood of this resting-place , on the hill , the sun shone through the trees , and there they thought they would warm themselves ; and from there person_1 fancied they would be able to see his parents ' house.
But they were far away from the house in question , in quite another part of the forest.
They clambered to the top of the rising ground , and found themselves on the summit of a slope running down to the margin of a transparent lake.
They could see fish in great numbers in the pure water illumined by the sun 's rays.
This spectacle was quite a sudden surprise for them ; but close beside them grew a nut bush covered with the finest nuts ; and now they picked the nuts , and cracked them , and ate the delicate young kernels , which had only just become perfect.
But there was another surprise and another fright in store for them.
Out of the thicket stepped a tall old woman ; her face was quite brown , and her hair was deep black and shining.
The whites of her eyes gleamed like a negro 's ; on her back she carried a bundle , and in her hand she bore a knotted stick.
She was a gipsy.
The children did not at once understand what she said.
She brought three nuts out of her pocket , and told them that in these nuts the most beautiful , the loveliest things were hidden ; for they were wishing-nuts.
person_1 looked at her , and she seemed so friendly , that he plucked up courage and asked her if she would give him the nuts ; and the woman gave them to him , and gathered some more for herself , a whole pocketful , from the nut bush.
And person_1 and person_0 looked at the wishing-nuts with great eyes.
`` Is there a carriage with a pair of horses in this nut ?"
he asked.
`` Yes , there 's a golden carriage with two horses ,"
answered the woman.
`` Then give me the nut ,"
said little person_0.
And person_1 gave it to her , and the strange woman tied it in her pocket-handkerchief for her.
`` Is there in this nut a pretty little neckerchief , like the one person_0 wears round her neck ?"
inquired person_1.
`` There are ten neckerchiefs in it ,"
answered the woman.
`` There are beautiful dresses in it , and stockings , and a hat with a veil"
`` Then I will have that one too ,"
cried little person_0.
And person_1 gave her the second nut also.
The third was a little black thing.
`` That one you can keep ,"
said person_0 ; `` and it is a pretty one too"
`` What is in it ?"
inquired person_1.
`` The best of all things for you ,"
replied the gipsy-woman.
And person_1 held the nut very tight.
The woman promised to lead the children into the right path , so that they might find their way home ; and now they went forward , certainly in quite a different direction from the path they should have followed.
But that is no reason why we should suspect the gipsy-woman of wanting to steal the children.
In the wild wood-path they met the forest bailiff , who knew person_1 ; and by his help , person_1 and person_0 both arrived at home , where their friends had been very anxious about them.
They were pardoned and forgiven , although they had indeed both deserved `` to get into trouble ;"
firstly , because they had let the sucking-pig fall into the water , and secondly , because they had run away.
person_0 was taken back to her father on the heath , and person_1 remained in the farmhouse on the margin of the wood by the great ridge.
The first thing he did in the evening was to bring forth out of his pocket the little black nut , in which `` the best thing of all"
was said to be enclosed.
He placed it carefully in the crack of the door , and then shut the door so as to break the nut ; but there was not much kernel in it.
The nut looked as if it were filled with tobacco or black rich earth ; it was what we call hollow , or worm-eaten.
`` Yes , that 's exactly what I thought ,"
said person_1.
`` How could the very best thing be contained in this little nut ? And person_0 will get just as little out of her two nuts , and will have neither fine clothes nor the golden carriage"
And winter came on , and the new year began ; indeed , several years went by.
person_1 was at last to be confirmed ; and for this reason he went during a whole winter to the clergyman , far away in the nearest village , to prepare.
About this time the boatman one day visited person_1 's parents , and told them that person_0 was now going into service , and that she had been really fortunate in getting a remarkably good place , and falling into worthy hands.
`` Only think ,"
he said ; `` she is going to the rich innkeeper 's , in the inn at Herning , far towards the west , many miles from here.
She is to assist the hostess in keeping the house ; and afterwards , if she takes to it well , and stays to be confirmed there , the people are going to adopt her as their own daughter"
And person_1 and person_0 took leave of one another.
People called them `` the betrothed ;"
and at parting , the girl showed person_1 that she had still the two nuts which he had given her long ago , during their wanderings in the forest ; and she told him , moreover , that in a drawer she had carefully kept the little wooden shoes which he had carved as a present for her in their childish days.
And thereupon they parted.
person_1 was confirmed.
But he remained in his mother 's house , for he had become a clever maker of wooden shoes , and in summer he looked after the field.
He did it all alone , for his mother kept no farm-servant , and his father had died long ago.
Only seldom he got news of person_0 from some passing postillion or eel-fisher.
But she was well off at the rich innkeeper 's ; and after she had been confirmed , she wrote a letter to her father , and sent a kind message to person_1 and his mother ; and in the letter there was mention made of certain linen garments and a fine new gown , which person_0 had received as a present from her employers.
This was certainly good news.
Next spring , there was a knock one day at the door of our person_1is old mother , and behold , the boatman and person_0 stepped into the room.
She had come on a visit to spend a day : a carriage had to come from the Herning Inn to the next village , and she had taken the opportunity to see her friends once again.
She looked as handsome as a real lady , and she had a pretty gown on , which had been well sewn , and made expressly for her.
There she stood , in grand array , and person_1 was in his working clothes.
He could not utter a word : he certainly seized her hand , and held it fast in his own , and was heartily glad ; but he could not get his tongue to obey him.
person_0 was not embarrassed , however , for she went on talking and talking , and , moreover , kissed person_1 on his mouth in the heartiest manner.
`` Did you know me again directly , person_1 ?"
she asked ; but even afterwards , when they were left quite by themselves , and he stood there still holding her hand in his , he could only say : `` You look quite like a real lady , and I am so uncouth.
How often I have thought of you , person_0 , and of the old times !"
And arm in arm they sauntered up the great ridge , and looked across the stream towards the heath , towards the great hills overgrown with bloom.
It was perfectly silent ; but by the time they parted it had grown quite clear to him that person_0 must be his wife.
Had they not , even in their childhood , been called the betrothed pair ? To him they seemed to be really engaged to each other , though neither of them had spoken a word on the subject.
Only for a few more hours could they remain together , for person_0 was obliged to go back into the next village , from whence the carriage was to start early next morning for Herning.
Her father and person_1 escorted her as far as the village.
It was a fair moonlight evening , and when they reached their destination , and person_1 still held person_0 's hand in his own , he could not make up his mind to let her go.
His eyes brightened , but still the words came halting over his lips.
Yet they came from the depths of his heart , when he said : `` If you have not become too grand , person_0 , and if you can make up your mind to live with me in my mother 's house as my wife , we must become a wedded pair some day ; but we can wait awhile yet"
`` Yes , let us wait for a time , person_1 ,"
she replied ; and he kissed her lips.
`` I confide in you , person_1 ,"
said person_0 ; `` and I think that I love you -- but I will sleep upon it"
And with that they parted.
And on the way home person_1 told the boatman that he and person_0 were as good as betrothed ; and the boatman declared he had always expected it would turn out so ; and he went home with person_1 , and remained that night in the young man 's house ; but nothing further was said of the betrothal.
A year passed by , in the course of which two letters were exchanged between person_1 and person_0.
The signature was prefaced by the words , `` Faithful till death !"
One day the boatman came into person_1 , and brought him a greeting from person_0.
What he had further to say was brought out in somewhat hesitating fashion , but it was to the effect that person_0 was almost more than prosperous , for she was a pretty girl , courted and loved.
The son of the host had been home on a visit ; he was employed in the office of some great institution in Copenhagen ; and he was very much pleased with person_0 , and she had taken a fancy to him : his parents were ready to give their consent , but person_0 was very anxious to retain person_1 's good opinion ; `` and so she had thought of refusing this great piece of good fortune ,"
said the boatman.
At first person_1 said not a word ; but he became as white as the wall , and slightly shook his head.
Then he said slowly : `` person_0 must not refuse this advantageous offer"
`` Then do you write a few words to her ,"
said the boatman.
And person_1 sat down to write ; but he could not manage it well : the words would not come as he wished them ; and first he altered , and then he tore up the page ; but the next morning a letter lay ready to be sent to person_0 , and it contained the following words : `` I have read the letter you have sent to your father , and gather from it that you are prospering in all things , and that there is a prospect of higher fortune for you.
Ask your heart , person_0 , and ponder well the fate that awaits you , if you take me for your husband ; what I possess is but little.
Do not think of me , or my position , but think of your own welfare.
You are bound to me by no promise , and if in your heart you have given me one , I release you from it.
May all treasures of happiness be poured out upon you , person_0.
Heaven will console me in its own good time.
`` Ever your sincere friend , `` ib"
And the letter was dispatched , and person_0 duly received it.
In the course of that November her banns were published in the church on the heath , and in Copenhagen , where her bridegroom lived ; and to Copenhagen she proceeded , under the protection of her future mother-in-law , because the bridegroom could not undertake the journey into Jutland on account of his various occupations.
On the journey , person_0 met her father in a certain village ; and here the two took leave of one another.
A few words were mentioned concerning this fact , but person_1 made no remark upon it : his mother said he had grown very silent of late ; indeed , he had become very pensive , and thus the three nuts came into his mind which the gipsy-woman had given him long ago , and of which he had given two to person_0.
Yes , it seemed right -- they were wishing-nuts , and in one of them lay a golden carriage with two horses , and in the other very elegant clothes ; all those luxuries would now be person_0 's in the capital.
Her part had thus come true.
And to him , person_1 , the nut had offered only black earth.
The gipsy-woman had said , this was `` the best of all for him"
Yes , it was right , that also was coming true.
The black earth was the best for him.
Now he understood clearly what had been the woman 's meaning.
In the black earth , in the dark grave , would be the best happiness for him.
And once again years passed by , not very many , but they seemed long years to person_1.
The old innkeeper and his wife died , one after the other ; the whole of their property , many thousands of dollars , came to the son.
Yes , now person_0 could have the golden carriage , and plenty of fine clothes.
During the two long years that followed no letter came from person_0 ; and when her father at length received one from her , it was not written in prosperity , by any means.
Poor person_0 ! neither she nor her husband had understood how to keep the money together ; and there seemed to be no blessing with it , because they had not sought it.
And again the weather bloomed and faded.
The winter had swept for many years across the heath , and over the ridge beneath which person_1 dwelt , sheltered from the rough winds.
The spring sun shone bright , and person_1 guided the plough across his field , when one day it glided over what appeared to be a fire stone.
Something like a great black ship came out of the ground , and when person_1 took it up it proved to be a piece of metal ; and the place from which the plough had cut the stone gleamed brightly with ore.
.
It was a great golden armlet of ancient workmanship that he had found.
He had disturbed a `` Hun 's Grave ,"
and discovered the costly treasure buried in it.
person_1 showed what he had found to the clergyman , who explained its value to him , and then he betook himself to the local judges , who reported the discovery to the keeper of the museum , and recommended person_1 to deliver up the treasure in person.
`` You have found in the earth the best thing you could find ,"
said the judge.
`` The best thing !"
thought person_1.
`` The very best thing for me , and found in the earth ! Well , if that is the best , the gipsy-woman was correct in what she prophesied to me"
So person_1 traveled with the ferry-boat from Aarhus to Copenhagen.
To him , who had but once or twice passed beyond the river that rolled by his home , this seemed like a voyage across the ocean.
And he arrived in Copenhagen.
The value of the gold he had found was paid over to him ; it was a large sum -- six hundred dollars.
And person_1 of the heath wandered about in the great capital.
On the day on which he had settled to go back with the captain , person_1 lost his way in the streets , and took quite a different direction from the one he intended to follow.
He had wandered into the suburb of Christianhaven , into a poor little street.
Not a human being was to be seen.
At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched houses.
person_1 inquired of the little one the way to the street which he wanted ; but she looked shyly at him , and began to cry bitterly.
He asked her what ailed her , but could not understand what she said in reply.
But as they went along the street together , they passed beneath the light of a lamp ; and when the light fell on the girl 's face , he felt a strange and sharp emotion , for person_0 stood bodily before him , just as he remembered her from the days of his childhood.
And he went with the little maiden into the wretched house , and ascended the narrow , crazy staircase , which led to a little attic chamber in the roof.
The air in this chamber was heavy and almost suffocating : no light was burning ; but there was heavy sighing and moaning in one corner.
person_1 struck a light with the help of a match.
It was the mother of the child who lay sighing on the miserable bed.
`` Can I be of any service to you ?"
asked person_1.
`` This little girl has brought me up here , but I am a stranger in this city.
Are there no neighbors or friends whom I could call to you ?"
And he raised the sick woman 's head , and smoothed her pillow.
It was person_0 of the heath ! For years her name had not been mentioned yonder , for the mention of her would have disturbed person_1 's peace of mind , and rumor had told nothing good concerning her.
The wealth which her husband had inherited from his parents had made him proud and arrogant.
He had given up his certain appointment , had traveled for half a year in foreign lands , and on his return had incurred debts , and yet lived in an expensive fashion.
His carriage had bent over more and more , so to speak , until at last it turned over completely.
The many merry companions and table-friends he had entertained declared it served him right , for he had kept house like a madman ; and one morning his corpse was found in the canal.
The icy hand of death was already on person_0.
Her youngest child , only a few weeks old , expected in prosperity and born in misery , was already in its grave , and it had come to this with person_0 herself , that she lay , sick to death and forsaken , in a miserable room , amid a poverty that she might well have borne in her childish days , but which now oppressed her painfully , since she had been accustomed to better things.
It was her eldest child , also a little person_0 , that here suffered hunger and poverty with her , and whom person_1 had now brought home.
`` I am unhappy at the thought of dying and leaving the poor child here alone ,"
she said.
`` Ah , what is to become of the poor thing ?"
And not a word more could she utter.
And person_1 brought out another match , and lighted up a piece of candle he found in the room , and the flame illumined the wretched dwelling.
And person_1 looked at the little girl , and thought how person_0 had looked when she was young ; and he felt that for her sake he would be fond of this child , which was as yet a stranger to him.
The dying woman gazed at him , and her eyes opened wider and wider -- did she recognize him ? He never knew , for no further word passed over her lips.
And it was in the forest by the river Gudenau , in the region of the heath.
The air was thick and dark , and there were no blossoms on the heath plant ; but the autumn tempests whirled the yellow leaves from the wood into the stream , and out over the heath towards the hut of the boatman , in which strangers now dwelt ; but beneath the ridge , safe beneath the protection of the high trees , stood the little farm , trimly whitewashed and painted , and within it the turf blazed up cheerily in the chimney ; for within was sunlight , the beaming sunlight of a child 's two eyes ; and the tones of the spring birds sounded in the words that came from the child 's rosy lips : she sat on person_1 's knee , and person_1 was to her both father and mother , for her own parents were dead , and had vanished from her as a dream vanishes alike from children and grown men.
person_1 sat in the pretty neat house , for he was a prosperous man , while the mother of the little girl rested in the churchyard at Copenhagen , where she had died in poverty.
-LRB- Illustration : LITTLE CHRISTINE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa person_1 had money , and was said to have provided for the future.
He had won gold out of the black earth , and he had a person_0 for his own , after all"
The insignia of the great Japanese Empire is composed of three treasures which have been considered sacred , and guarded with jealous care from time immemorial.
These are the Yatano-no-Kagami or the Mirror of Yata , the Yasakami-no-Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami , and the person_7-no-Tsurugi or the Sword of person_7.
Of these three treasures of the Empire , the sword of person_7 , afterwards known as Kusanagi-no-Tsrugugi , or the grass-cleaving sword , is considered the most precious and most highly to be honored , for it is the symbol of strength to this nation of warriors and the talisman of invincibility for the Emperor , while he holds it sacred in the shrine of his ancestors.
Nearly two thousand years ago this sword was kept at the shrines of Ite , the temples dedicated to the worship of Amaterasu , the great and beautiful Sun Goddess from whom the Japanese Emperors are said to be descended.
There is a story of knightly adventure and daring which explains why the name of the sword was changed from that of person_7 to Kasanagi , which means grass clearing.
Once , many , many years ago , there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko , the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu , the founder of the Japanese dynasty.
This person_2 was the second son of the Emperor Keiko , and he was named person_6.
From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength , wisdom and courage , and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things , and he loved him even more than he did his elder son.
Now when person_2 had grown to manhood -LRB- in the olden days of Japanese history , a boy was considered to have reached man 's estate at the early age of sixteen -RRB- the realm was much troubled by a band of outlaws whose chiefs were two brothers , Kumaso and person_1.
These rebels seemed to delight in rebelling against the person_3 , in breaking the laws and defying all authority.
At last person_3 Keiko ordered his younger son person_2 to subdue the brigands and , if possible , to rid the land of their evil lives.
person_2 was only sixteen years of age , he had but reached his manhood according to the law , yet though he was such a youth in years he possessed the dauntless spirit of a warrior of fuller age and knew not what fear was.
Even then there was no man who could rival him for courage and bold deeds , and he received his father 's command with great joy.
He at once made ready to start , and great was the stir in the precincts of the Palace as he and his trusty followers gathered together and prepared for the expedition , and polished up their armor and donned it.
Before he left his father 's Court he went to pray at the shrine of Ise and to take leave of his aunt the person_5 , for his heart was somewhat heavy at the thought of the dangers he had to face , and he felt that he needed the protection of his ancestress , Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess.
The person_5 his aunt came out to give him glad welcome , and congratulated him on being trusted with so great a mission by his father the person_3.
She then gave him one of her gorgeous robes as a keepsake to go with him and to bring him good luck , saying that it would surely be of service to him on this adventure.
She then wished him all success in his undertaking and bade him good speed.
The young person_2 bowed low before his aunt , and received her gracious gift with much pleasure and many respectful bows.
`` I will now set out ,"
said the person_2 , and returning to the Palace he put himself at the head of his troops.
Thus cheered by his aunt 's blessing , he felt ready for all that might befall , and marching through the land he went down to the Southern Island of Kiushiu , the home of the brigands.
Before many days had passed he reached the Southern Island , and then slowly but surely made his way to the head-quarters of the chiefs Kumaso and person_1.
He now met with great difficulties , for he found the country exceedingly wild and rough.
The mountains were high and steep , the valleys dark and deep , and huge trees and bowlders of rock blocked up the road and stopped the progress of his army.
It was all but impossible to go on.
Though the person_2 was but a youth he had the wisdom of years , and , seeing that it was vain to try and lead his men further , he said to himself : `` To attempt to fight a battle in this impassable country unknown to my men only makes my task harder.
We can not clear the roads and fight as well.
It is wiser for me to resort to stratagem and come upon my enemies unawares.
In that way I may be able to kill them without much exertion"
So he now bade his army halt by the way.
His wife , the person_5 , had accompanied him , and he bade her bring him the robe his aunt the priestess of Ise had given him , and to help him attire himself as a woman.
With her help he put on the robe , and let his hair down till it flowed over his shoulders.
person_4 then brought him her comb , which he put in his black tresses , and then adorned himself with strings of strange jewels just as you see in the picture.
When he had finished his unusual toilet , person_4 brought him her mirror.
He smiled as he gazed at himself -- the disguise was so perfect.
He hardly knew himself , so changed was he.
All traces of the warrior had disappeared , and in the shining surface only a beautiful lady looked back at him.
Thus completely disguised , he set out for the enemy 's camp alone.
In the folds of his silk gown , next his strong heart , was hidden a sharp dagger.
The two chiefs Kumaso and person_1 wore sitting in their tent , resting in the cool of the evening , when the person_2 approached.
They were talking of the news which had recently been carried to them , that the person_3 's son had entered their country with a large army determined to exterminate their band.
They had both heard of the young warrior 's renown , and for the first time in their wicked lives they felt afraid.
In a pause in their talk they happened to look up , and saw through the door of the tent a beautiful woman robed in sumptuous garments coming towards them.
Like an apparition of loveliness she appeared in the soft twilight.
Little did they dream that it was their enemy whose coming they so dreaded who now stood before them in this disguise.
`` What a beautiful woman ! Where has she come from ?"
said the astonished Kumaso , forgetting war and council and everything as he looked at the gentle intruder.
He beckoned to the disguised person_2 and bade him sit down and serve them with wine.
person_6 felt his heart swell with a fierce glee for he now knew that his plan would succeed.
However , he dissembled cleverly , and putting on a sweet air of shyness he approached the rebel chief with slow steps and eyes glancing like a frightened deer.
Charmed to distraction by the girl 's loveliness Kumaso drank cup after cup of wine for the pleasure of seeing her pour it out for him , till at last he was quite overcome with the quantity he had drunk.
This was the moment for which the brave person_2 had been waiting.
Flinging down the wine jar , he seized the tipsy and astonished Kumaso and quickly stabbed him to death with the dagger which he had secretly carried hidden in his breast.
person_1 , the brigand 's brother , was terror-struck as soon as he saw what was happening and tried to escape , but person_2 was too quick for him.
Ere he could reach the tent door the person_2 was at his heel , his garments were clutched by a hand of iron , and a dagger flashed before his eyes and he lay stabbed to the earth , dying but not yet dead.
`` Wait one moment !"
gasped the brigand painfully , and he seized the person_2 's hand.
person_6 relaxed his hold somewhat and said.
`` Why should I pause , thou villain ?"
The brigand raised himself fearfully and said : `` Tell me from whence you come , and whom I have the honor of addressing ? Hitherto I believed that my dead brother and I were the strongest men in the land , and that there was no one who could overcome us.
Alone you have ventured into our stronghold , alone you have attacked and killed us ! Surely you are more than mortal ?"
Then the young person_2 answered with a proud smile : -- `` I am the son of the person_3 and my name is person_6 , and I have been sent by my father as the avenger of evil to bring death to all rebels ! No longer shall robbery and murder hold my people in terror !"
and he held the dagger dripping red above the rebel 's head.
`` Ah ,"
gasped the dying man with a great effort , `` I have often heard of you.
You are indeed a strong man to have so easily overcome us.
Allow me to give you a new name.
From henceforth you shall be known as person_6.
Our title I bequeath to you as the bravest man in person_6"
And with these noble words , person_1 fell back and died.
The person_2 having thus successfully put an end to his father 's enemies in the world , was prepared to return to the capital.
On the way back he passed through the province of Idum.
Here he met with another outlaw named Idzumo person_1 who he knew had done much harm in the land.
He again resorted to stratagem , and feigned friendship with the rebel under an assumed name.
Having done this he made a sword of wood and jammed it tightly in the shaft of his own strong sword.
This he purposedly buckled to his side and wore on every occasion when he expected to meet the third robber person_1 , He now invited person_1 to the bank of the River Hinokawa , and persuaded him to try a swim with him in the cool refreshing waters of the river.
As it was a hot summer 's day , the rebel was nothing loath to take a plunge in the river , while his enemy was still swimming down the stream the person_2 turned back and landed with all possible haste.
Unperceived , he managed to change swords , putting his wooden one in place of the keen steel sword of person_1.
Knowing nothing of this , the brigand came up to the bank shortly.
As soon as he had landed and donned his clothes , the person_2 came forward and asked him to cross swords with him to prove his skill , saying : `` Let us two prove which is the better swordsman of the two !"
The robber agreed with delight , feeling certain of victory , for he was famous as a fencer in his province and he did not know who his adversary was.
He seized quickly what he thought was his sword and stood on guard to defend himself.
Alas ! for the rebel the sword was the wooden one of the young person_2 and in vain person_1 tried to unsheathe it -- it was jammed fast , not all his exerted strength could move it.
Even if his efforts had been successful the sword would have been of no use to him for it was of wood.
person_6 saw that his enemy was in his power , and swinging high the sword he had taken from person_1 he brought it down with great might and dexterity and cut off the robber 's head.
In this way , sometimes by using his wisdom and sometimes by using his bodily strength , and at other times by resorting to craftiness , which was as much esteemed in those days as it is despised in these , he prevailed against all the person_3 's foes one by one , and brought peace and rest to the land and the people.
When he returned to the capital the person_3 praised him for his brave deeds , and held a feast in the Palace in honor of his safe coming home and presented him with many rare gifts.
From this time forth the person_3 loved him more than ever and would not let person_6 go from his side , for he said that his son was now as precious to him as one of his arms.
But the person_2 was not allowed to live an idle life long.
When he was about thirty years old , news was brought that the Ainu race , the aborigines of the islands of Japan , who had been conquered and pushed northwards by the Japanese , had rebelled in the Eastern provinces , and leaving the vicinity which had been allotted to them were causing great trouble in the land.
The person_3 decided that it was necessary to send an army to do battle with them and bring them to reason.
But who was to lead the men ? person_2 person_0 at once offered to go and bring the newly arisen rebels into subjection.
Now as the person_3 loved the person_2 dearly , and could not bear to have him go out of his sight even for the length of one day , he was of course very loath to send him on his dangerous expedition.
But in the whole army there was no warrior so strong or so brave as the person_2 his son , so that His Majesty , unable to do otherwise , reluctantly complied with person_6 's wish.
When the time came for the person_2 to start , the person_3 gave him a spear called the Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree -LRB- the handle was probably made from the wood of the holly tree -RRB- , and ordered him to set out to subjugate the Eastern Barbarians as the Ainu were then called.
The Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree of those old days , was prized by warriors just as much as the Standard or Banner is valued by a regiment in these modern days , when given by the person_3 to his soldiers on the occasion of setting out for war.
The person_2 respectfully and with great reverence received the person_3 's spear , and leaving the capital , marched with his army to the East.
On his way he visited first of all the temples of Ise for worship , and his aunt the person_5 of person_6 and High Priestess came out to greet him.
She it was who had given him her robe which had proved such a boon to him before in helping him to overcome and slay the brigands of the West.
He told her all that had happened to him , and of the great part her keepsake had played in the success of his previous undertaking , and thanked her very heartily.
When she heard that he was starting out once again to do battle with his father 's enemies , she went into the temple , and reappeared bearing a sword and a beautiful bag which she had made herself , and which was full of flints , which in those times people used instead of matches for making fire.
These she presented to him as a parting gift.
The sword was the sword of person_7 , one of the three sacred treasures which comprise the insignia of the Imperial House of Japan.
No more auspicious talisman of luck and success could she have given her nephew , and she bade him use it in the hour of his greatest need.
person_6 now bade farewell to his aunt , and once more placing himself at the head of his men he marched to the farthest East through the province of Owari , and then he reached the province of Suruga.
Here the governor welcomed the person_2 right heartily and entertained him royally with many feasts.
When these were over , the governor told his guest that his country was famous for its fine deer , and proposed a deer hunt for the person_2 's amusement.
The person_2 was utterly deceived by the cordiality of his host , which was all feigned , and gladly consented to join in the hunt.
The governor then led the person_2 to a wild and extensive plain where the grass grew high and in great abundance.
Quite ignorant that the governor had laid a trap for him with the desire to compass his death , the person_2 began to ride hard and hunt down the deer , when all of a sudden to his amazement he saw flames and smoke bursting out from the bush in front of him.
Realizing his danger he tried to retreat , but no sooner did he turn his horse in the opposite direction than he saw that even there the prairie was on fire.
At the same time the grass on his left and right burst into flames , and these began to spread swiftly towards him on all sides.
He looked round for a chance of escape.
There was none.
He was surrounded by fire.
`` This deer hunt was then only a cunning trick of the enemy !"
said the person_2 , looking round on the flames and the smoke that crackled and rolled in towards him on every side.
`` What a fool I was to be lured into this trap like a wild beast !"
and he ground his teeth with rage as he thought of the governor 's smiling treachery.
Dangerous as was his situation now , the person_2 was not in the least confounded.
In his dire extremity he remembered the gifts his aunt had given him when they parted , and it seemed to him as if she must , with prophetic foresight , have divined this hour of need.
He coolly opened the flint-bag that his aunt had given him and set fire to the grass near him.
Then drawing the sword of person_7 from its sheath he set to work to cut down the grass on either side of him with all speed.
He determined to die , if that were necessary , fighting for his life and not standing still waiting for death to come to him.
Strange to say the wind began to change and to blow from the opposite direction , and the fiercest portion of the burning bush which had hitherto threatened to come upon him was now blown right away from him , and the person_2 , without even a scratch on his body or a single hair burned , lived to tell the tale of his wonderful escape , while the wind rising to a gale overtook the governor , and he was burned to death in the flames he had set alight to kill person_6.
Now the person_2 ascribed his escape entirely to the virtue of the sword of person_7 , and to the protection of Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess of Ise , who controls the wind and all the elements and insures the safety of all who pray to her in the hour of danger.
Lifting the precious sword he raised it above his head many times in token of his great respect , and as he did this he re-named it Kusanagi-no-Tsurugi or the Grass-Cleaving Sword , and the place where he set fire to the grass round him and escaped from death in the burning prairie , he called Yaidzu.
To this day there is a spot along the great Tokaido railway named Yaidzu , which is said to be the very place where this thrilling event took place.
Thus did the brave person_2 person_0 escape out of the snare laid for him by his enemy.
He was full of resource and courage , and finally outwitted and subdued all his foes.
Leaving Yaidzu he marched eastward , and came to the shore at Idzu from whence he wished to cross to Kadzusa.
In these dangers and adventures he had been followed by his faithful loving wife the person_5.
For his sake she counted the weariness of the long journeys and the dangers of war as nothing , and her love for her warrior husband was so great that she felt well repaid for all her wanderings if she could but hand him his sword when he sallied forth to battle , or minister to his wants when he returned weary to the camp.
But the heart of the person_2 was full of war and conquest and he cared little for the faithful person_4.
From long exposure in traveling , and from care and grief at her lord 's coldness to her , her beauty had faded , and her ivory skin was burnt brown by the sun , and the person_2 told her one day that her place was in the Palace behind the screens at home and not with him upon the warpath.
But in spite of rebuffs and indifference on her husband 's part , person_4 could not find it in her heart to leave him.
But perhaps it would have been better for her if she had done so , for on the way to Idzu , when they came to Owari , her heart was well-nigh broken.
Here dwelt in a Palace shaded by pine-trees and approached by imposing gates , the person_5 Miyadzu , beautiful as the cherry blossom in the blushing dawn of a spring morning.
Her garments were dainty and bright , and her skin was white as snow , for she had never known what it was to be weary along the path of duty or to walk in the heat of a summer 's sun.
And the person_2 was ashamed of his sunburnt wife in her travel-stained garments , and bade her remain behind while he went to visit the person_5 Miyadzu.
Day after day he spent hours in the gardens and the Palace of his new friend , thinking only of his pleasure , and caring little for his poor wife who remained behind to weep in the tent at the misery which had come into her life.
Yet she was so faithful a wife , and her character so patient , that she never allowed a reproach to escape her lips , or a frown to mar the sweet sadness of her face , and she was ever ready with a smile to welcome her husband back or usher him forth wherever he went.
At last the day came when the person_2 person_0 must depart for Idzu and cross over the sea to Kadzusa , and he bade his wife follow in his retinue as an attendant while he went to take a ceremonious farewell of the person_5 Miyadzu.
She came out to greet him dressed in gorgeous robes , and she seemed more beautiful than ever , and when person_6 saw her he forgot his wife , his duty , and everything except the joy of the idle present , and swore that he would return to Owari and marry her when the war was over.
And as he looked up when he had said these words he met the large almond eyes of person_4 fixed full upon him in unspeakable sadness and wonder , and he knew that he had done wrong , hut he hardened his heart and rode on , caring little for the pain he had caused her.
When they reached the seashore at Idzu his men sought for boats in which to cross the straits to Kadzusa , but it was difficult to find boats enough to allow all the soldiers to embark.
Then the person_2 stood on the beach , and in the pride of his strength he scoffed and said : `` This is not the sea ! This is only a brook ! Why do you men want so many boats ? I could jump this if I would"
When at last they had all embarked and were fairly on their way across the straits , the sky suddenly clouded and a great storm arose.
The waves rose mountains high , the wind howled , the lightning flashed and the thunder rolled , and the boat which held person_4 and the person_2 and his men was tossed from crest to crest of the rolling waves , till it seemed that every moment must be their last and that they must all be swallowed up in the angry sea.
For Kin Jin.
the Dragon person_3 of the Sea , had heard person_6 jeer , and had raised this terrible storm in anger , to show the scoffing person_2 how awful the sea could be though it did but look like a brook.
The terrified crew lowered the sails and looked after the rudder , and worked for their dear lives ' sake , but all in vain -- the storm only seemed to increase in violence , and all gave themselves up for lost.
Then the faithful person_4 rose , and forgetting all the grief that her husband had caused her , forgetting even that he had wearied of her , in the one great desire of her love to save him , she determined to sacrifice her life to rescue him from death if it were possible.
While the waves dashed over the ship and the wind whirled round them in fury she stood up and said : `` Surely all this has come because the person_2 has angered Rin Jin , the God of the Sea , by his jesting.
If so , I , person_4 , will appease the wrath of the Sea God who desires nothing less than my husband 's life !"
Then addressing the sea she said : `` I will take the place of His Augustness , person_6.
I will now cast myself into your outraged depths , giving my life for his.
Therefore hear me and bring him safely to the shore of Kadzusa"
With these words she leaped quickly into the boisterous sea , and the waves soon whirled her away and she was lost to sight.
Strange to say , the storm ceased at once , and the sea became as calm and smooth as the matting on which the astonished onlookers were sitting.
The gods of the sea were now appeased , and the weather cleared and the sun shone as on a summer 's day.
person_6 soon reached the opposite shore and landed safely , even as his wife person_4 had prayed.
His prowess in war was marvelous , and he succeeded after some time in conquering the Eastern Barbarians , the Ainu.
He ascribed his safe landing wholly to the faithfulness of his wife , who had so willingly and lovingly sacrificed herself in the hour of his utmost peril.
His heart was softened at the remembrance of her , and he never allowed her to pass from his thoughts even for a moment.
Too late had he learned to esteem the goodness of her heart and the greatness of her love for him.
As he was returning on his homeward way he came to the high pass of the Usui Toge , and here he stood and gazed at the wonderful prospect beneath him.
The country , from this great elevation , all lay open to his sight , a vast panorama of mountain and plain and forest , with rivers winding like silver ribbons through the land ; then far off he saw the distant sea , which shimmered like a luminous mist in the great distance , where person_4 had given her life for him , and as he turned towards it he stretched out his arms , and thinking of her love which he had scorned and his faithlessness to her , his heart burst out into a sorrowful and bitter cry : `` Azuma , Azuma , Ya !"
-LRB- Oh ! my wife , my wife ! -RRB- And to this day there is a district in Tokio called Azuma , which commemorates the words of person_2 person_0 , and the place where his faithful wife leapt into the sea to save him is still pointed out.
So , though in life the person_5 was unhappy , history keeps her memory green , and the story of her unselfishness and heroic death will never pass away.
person_6 had now fulfilled all his father 's orders , he had subdued all rebels , and rid the land of all robbers and enemies to the peace , and his renown was great , for in the whole land there was no one who could stand up against him , he was so strong in battle and wise in council.
He was about to return straight for home by the way he had come , when the thought struck him that he would find it more interesting to take another route , so he passed through the province of Owari and came to the province of Omi.
When the person_2 reached Omi he found the people in a state of great excitement and fear.
In many houses as he passed along he saw the signs of mourning and heard loud lamentations.
On inquiring the cause of this he was told that a terrible monster had appeared in the mountains , who daily came down from thence and made raids on the villages , devouring whoever he could seize.
Many homes had been made desolate and the men were afraid to go out to their daily work in the fields , or the women to go to the rivers to wash their rice.
When person_6 heard this his wrath was kindled , and he said fiercely : `` From the western end of Kiushiu to the eastern corner of Yezo I have subdued all the person_3 's enemies -- there is no one who dares to break the laws or to rebel against the person_3.
It.
is indeed a matter for wonder that here in this place , so near the capital , a wicked monster has dared to take up his abode and be the terror of the person_3 's subjects.
Not long shall it find pleasure in devouring innocent folk.
I will start out and kill it at once"
With these words he set out for the Ibuki Mountain , where the monster was said to live.
He climbed up a good distance , when all of a sudden , at a winding in the path , a monster serpent appeared before him and stopped the way.
`` This must be the monster ,"
said the person_2 ; `` I do not need my sword for a serpent.
I can kill him with my hands"
He thereupon sprang upon the serpent and tried to strangle it to death with his bare arms.
It was not long before his prodigious strength gained the mastery and the serpent lay dead at his feet.
Now a sudden darkness came over the mountain and rain began to fall , so that for the gloom and the rain the person_2 could hardly see which way to take.
In a short time , however , while he was groping his way down the pass , the weather cleared , and our brave hero was able to make his way quickly down the mountain.
When be got back he began to feel ill and to have burning pains in his feet , so he knew that the serpent had poisoned him.
So great was his suffering that he could hardly move , much less walk , so he had himself carried to a place in the mountains famous for its hot mineral springs , which rose bubbling out of the earth , and almost boiling from the volcanic fires beneath.
person_6 bathed daily in these waters , and gradually he felt his strength come again , and the pains left him , till at last one day he found with great joy that he was quite recovered.
He now hastened to the temples of Ise , where you will remember that he prayed before undertaking this long expedition.
His aunt , priestess of the shrine , who had blessed him on his setting out , now came to welcome him back.
He told her of the many dangers he had encountered and of how marvelously his life had been preserved through all -- and she praised his courage and his warrior 's prowess , and then putting on her most magnificent robes she returned thanks to their ancestress the Sun Goddess Amaterasu , to whose protection they both ascribed the person_2 's wonderful preservation.
Here ends the story of person_2 person_0 of Japan"
Long , long ago , there lived an old bamboo wood-cutter.
He was very poor and sad also , for no child had Heaven sent to cheer his old age , and in his heart there was no hope of rest from work till he died and was laid in the quiet grave.
Every morning he went forth into the woods and hills wherever the bamboo reared its lithe green plumes against the sky.
When he had made his choice , he would cut down these feathers of the forest , and splitting them lengthwise , or cutting them into joints , would carry the bamboo wood home and make it into various articles for the household , and he and his old wife gained a small livelihood by selling them.
One morning as usual he had gone out to his work , and having found a nice clump of bamboos , had set to work to cut some of them down.
Suddenly the green grove of bamboos was flooded with a bright soft light , as if the full moon had risen over the spot.
Looking round in astonishment , he saw that the brilliance was streaming from one bamboo.
The old man.
full of wonder.
dropped his ax and went towards the light.
On nearer approach he saw that this soft splendor came from a hollow in the green bamboo stem , and still more wonderful to behold , in the midst of the brilliance stood a tiny human being , only three inches in height , and exquisitely beautiful in appearance.
`` You must be sent to be my child , for I find you here among the bamboos where lies my daily work ,"
said the old man , and taking the little creature in his hand he took it home to his wife to bring up.
The tiny girl was so exceedingly beautiful and so small , that the old woman put her into a basket to safeguard her from the least possibility of being hurt in any way.
The old couple were now very happy , for it had been a lifelong regret that they had no children of their own , and with joy they now expended all the love of their old age on the little child who had come to them in so marvelous a manner.
From this time on , the old man often found gold in the notches of the bamboos when he hewed them down and cut them up ; not only gold , but precious stones also , so that by degrees he became rich.
He built himself a fine house , and was no longer known as the poor bamboo woodcutter , but as a wealthy man.
Three months passed quickly away , and in that time the bamboo child had , wonderful to say , become a full-grown girl , so her foster - parents did up her hair and dressed her in beautiful kimonos.
She was of such wondrous beauty that they placed her behind the screens like a princess , and allowed no one to see her , waiting upon her themselves.
It seemed as if she were made of light , for the house was filled with a soft shining , so that even in the dark of night it was like daytime.
Her presence seemed to have a benign influence on those there.
Whenever the old man felt sad , he had only to look upon his foster-daughter and his sorrow vanished , and he became as happy as when he was a youth.
At last the day came for the naming of their new-found child , so the old couple called in a celebrated name-giver , and he gave her the name of person_0 , because her body gave forth so much soft bright light that she might have been a daughter of the Moon God.
For three days the festival was kept up with song and dance and music.
All the friends and relations of the old couple were present , and great was their enjoyment of the festivities held to celebrate the naming of person_0.
Everyone who saw her declared that there never had been seen any one so lovely ; all the beauties throughout the length and breadth of the land would grow pale beside her , so they said.
The fame of the person_0 's loveliness spread far and wide , and many were the suitors who desired to win her hand , or even so much as to see her.
Suitors from far and near posted themselves outside the house , and made little holes in the fence , in the hope of catching a glimpse of the person_0 as she went from one room to the other along the veranda.
They stayed there day and night , sacrificing even their sleep for a chance of seeing her , but all in vain.
Then they approached the house , and tried to speak to the old man and his wife or some of the servants , but not even this was granted them.
Still , in spite of all this disappointment they stayed on day after day , and night after night , and counted it as nothing , so great was their desire to see the person_0.
At last , however , most of the men , seeing how hopeless their quest was , lost heart and hope both , and returned to their homes.
All except five person_1s , whose ardor and determination , instead of waning , seemed to wax greater with obstacles.
These five men even went without their meals , and took snatches of whatever they could get brought to them , so that they might always stand outside the dwelling.
They stood there in all weathers , in sunshine and in rain.
Sometimes they wrote letters to the person_0 , but no answer was vouchsafed to them.
Then when letters failed to draw any reply , they wrote poems to her telling her of the hopeless love which kept them from sleep , from food , from rest , and even from their homes.
Still Princes person_2 gave no sign of having received their verses.
In this hopeless state the winter passed.
The snow and frost and the cold winds gradually gave place to the gentle warmth of spring.
Then the summer came , and the sun burned white and scorching in the heavens above and on the earth beneath , and still these faithful person_1s kept watch and waited.
At the end of these long months they called out to the old bamboo-cutter and entreated him to have some mercy upon them and to show them the person_0 , but he answered only that as he was not her real father he could not insist on her obeying him against her wishes.
The five person_1s on receiving this stern answer returned to their several homes , and pondered over the best means of touching the proud person_0 's heart , even so much as to grant them a hearing.
They took their rosaries in hand and knelt before their household shrines , and burned precious incense , praying to Buddha to give them their heart 's desire.
Thus several days passed , but even so they could not rest in their homes.
So again they set out for the bamboo-cutter 's house.
This time the old man came out to see them , and they asked him to let them know if it was the person_0 's resolution never to see any man whatsoever , and they implored him to speak for them and to tell her the greatness of their love , and how long they had waited through the cold of winter and the heat of summer , sleepless and roofless through all weathers , without food and without rest , in the ardent hope of winning her , and they were willing to consider this long vigil as pleasure if she would but give them one chance of pleading their cause with her.
The old man lent a willing ear to their tale of love , for in his inmost heart he felt sorry for these faithful suitors and would have liked to see his lovely foster-daughter married to one of them.
So he went in to person_0 and said reverently : `` Although you have always seemed to me to be a heavenly being , yet I have had the trouble of bringing you up as my own child and you have been glad of the protection of my roof.
Will you refuse to do as I wish ?"
Then person_0 replied that there was nothing she would not do for him , that she honored and loved him as her own father , and that as for herself she could not remember the time before she came to earth.
The old man listened with great joy as she spoke these dutiful words.
Then he told her how anxious he was to see her safely and happily married before he died.
`` I am an old man , over seventy years of age , and my end may come any time now.
It is necessary and right that you should see these five suitors and choose one of them"
`` Oh , why ,"
said the person_0 in distress , `` must I do this ? I have no wish to marry now"
`` I found you ,"
answered the old man , `` many years ago , when you were a little creature three inches high , in the midst of a great white light.
The light streamed from the bamboo in which you were hid and led me to you.
So I have always thought that you were more than mortal woman.
While I am alive it is right for you to remain as you are if you wish to do so , but some day I shall cease to be and who will take care of you then ? Therefore I pray you to meet these five brave men one at a time and make up your mind to marry one of them !"
Then the person_0 answered that she felt sure that she was not as beautiful as perhaps report made her out to be , and that even if she consented to marry any one of them , not really knowing her before , his heart might change afterwards.
So as she did not feel sure of them , even though her father told her they were worthy person_1s , she did not feel it wise to see them.
`` All you say is very reasonable ,"
said the old man , `` but what kind of men will you consent to see ? I do not call these five men who have waited on you for months , light-hearted.
They have stood outside this house through the winter and the summer , often denying themselves food and sleep so that they may win you.
What more can you demand ?"
Then person_0 said she must make further trial of their love before she would grant their request to interview her.
The five warriors were to prove their love by each bringing her from distant countries something that she desired to possess.
That same evening the suitors arrived and began to play their flutes in turn , and to sing their self-composed songs telling of their great and tireless love.
The bamboo-cutter went out to them and offered them his sympathy for all they had endured and all the patience they had shown in their desire to win his foster-daughter.
Then he gave them her message , that she would consent to marry whosoever was successful in bringing her what she wanted.
This was to test them.
The five all accepted the trial , and thought it an excellent plan , for it would prevent jealousy between them.
person_0 then sent word to the First person_1 that she requested him to bring her the stone bowl which had belonged to Buddha in India.
The Second person_1 was asked to go to the Mountain of Horai , said to be situated in the Eastern Sea , and to bring her a branch of the wonderful tree that grew on its summit.
The roots of this tree were of silver , the trunk of gold , and the branches bore as fruit white jewels.
The Third person_1 was told to go to China and search for the fire-rat and to bring her its skin.
The Fourth person_1 was told to search for the dragon that carried on its head the stone radiating five colors and to bring the stone to her.
The Fifth person_1 was to find the swallow which carried a shell in its stomach and to bring the shell to her.
The old man thought these very hard tasks and hesitated to carry the messages , but the person_0 would make no other conditions.
So her commands were issued word for word to the five men who , when they heard what was required of them , were all disheartened and disgusted at what seemed to them the impossibility of the tasks given them and returned to their own homes in despair.
But after a time , when they thought of the person_0 , the love in their hearts revived for her , and they resolved to make an attempt to get what she desired of them.
The First person_1 sent word to the person_0 that he was starting out that day on the quest of Buddha 's bowl , and he hoped soon to bring it to her.
But he had not the courage to go all the way to India , for in those days traveling was very difficult and full of danger , so he went to one of the temples in Kyoto and took a stone bowl from the altar there , paying the priest a large sum of money for it.
He then wrapped it in a cloth of gold and , waiting quietly for three years , returned and carried it to the old man.
person_0 wondered that the person_1 should have returned so soon.
She took the bowl from its gold wrapping , expecting it to make the room full of light , but it did not shine at all , so she knew that it was a sham thing and not the true bowl of Buddha.
She returned it at once and refused to see him.
The person_1 threw the bowl away and returned to his home in despair.
He gave up now all hopes of ever winning the person_0.
The Second person_1 told his parents that he needed change of air for his health , for he was ashamed to tell them that love for the person_0 was the real cause of his leaving them.
He then left his home , at the same time sending word to the person_0 that he was setting out for Mount Horai in the hope of getting her a branch of the gold and silver tree which she so much wished to have.
He only allowed his servants to accompany him half-way , and then sent them back.
He reached the seashore and embarked on a small ship , and after sailing away for three days he landed and employed several carpenters to build him a house contrived in such a way that no one could get access to it.
He then shut himself up with six skilled jewelers , and endeavored to make such a gold and silver branch as he thought would satisfy the person_0 as having come from the wonderful tree growing on Mount Horai.
Every one whom he had asked declared that Mount Horai belonged to the land of fable and not to fact.
When the branch was finished , he took his journey home and tried to make himself look as if he were wearied and worn out with travel.
He put the jeweled branch into a lacquer box and carried it to the bamboo-cutter , begging him to present it to the person_0.
The old man was quite deceived by the travel-stained appearance of the person_1 , and thought that he had only just returned from his long journey with the branch.
So he tried to persuade the person_0 to consent to see the man.
But she remained silent and looked very sad.
The old man began to take out the branch and praised it as a wonderful treasure to be found nowhere in the whole land.
Then he spoke of the person_1 , how handsome and how brave he was to have undertaken a journey to so remote a place as the Mount of Horai.
person_0 took the branch in her hand and looked at it carefully.
She then told her foster-parent that she knew it was impossible for the man to have obtained a branch from the gold and silver tree growing on Mount Horai so quickly or so easily , and she was sorry to say she believed it artificial.
The old man then went out to the expectant person_1 , who had now approached the house , and asked where he had found the branch.
Then the man did not scruple to make up a long story.
`` Two years ago I took a ship and started in search of Mount Horai.
After going before the wind for some time I reached the far Eastern Sea.
Then a great storm arose and I was tossed about for many days , losing all count of the points of the compass , and finally we were blown ashore on an unknown island.
Here I found the place inhabited by demons who at one time threatened to kill and eat me.
However , I managed to make friends with these horrible creatures , and they helped me and my sailors to repair the boat , and I set sail again.
Our food gave out , and we suffered much from sickness on board.
At last , on the five-hundredth day from the day of starting , I saw far off on the horizon what looked like the peak of a mountain.
On nearer approach , this proved to be an island , in the center of which rose a high mountain.
I landed , and after wandering about for two or three days , I saw a shining being coming towards me on the beach , holding in his hands a golden bowl.
I went up to him and asked him if I had , by good chance , found the island of Mount Horai , and he answered :"
` Yes , this is Mount Horai ! '"
`` With much difficulty I climbed to the summit , here stood the golden tree growing with silver roots in the ground.
The wonders of that strange land are many , and if I began to tell you about them I could never stop.
In spite of my wish to stay there long , on breaking off the branch I hurried back.
With utmost speed it has taken me four hundred days to get back , and , as you see , my clothes are still damp from exposure on the long sea voyage.
I have not even waited to change my raiment , so anxious was I to bring the branch to the person_0 quickly"
Just at this moment the six jewelers , who had been employed on the making of the branch , but not yet paid by the person_1 , arrived at the house and sent in a petition to the person_0 to be paid for their labor.
They said that they had worked for over a thousand days making the branch of gold , with its silver twigs and its jeweled fruit , that was now presented to her by the person_1 , but as yet they had received nothing in payment.
So this person_1 's deception was thus found out , and the person_0 , glad of an escape from one more importunate suitor , was only too pleased to send back the branch.
She called in the workmen and had them paid liberally , and they went away happy.
But on the way home they were overtaken by the disappointed man.
who beat them till they were nearly dead , for letting out the secret , and they barely escaped with their lives.
The person_1 then returned home , raging in his heart ; and in despair of ever winning the person_0 gave up society and retired to a solitary life among the mountains.
Now the Third person_1 had a friend in China , so he wrote to him to get the skin of the fire-rat.
The virtue of any part of this animal was that no fire could harm it.
He promised his friend any amount of money he liked to ask if only he could get him the desired article.
As soon as the news came that the ship on which his friend had sailed home had come into port , he rode seven days on horseback to meet him.
He handed his friend a large sum of money , and received the fire-rat 's skin.
When he reached home he put it carefully in a box and sent it in to the person_0 while he waited outside for her answer.
The bamboo-cutter took the box from the person_1 and , as usual , carried it in to her and tried to coax her to see the person_1 at once , but person_0 refused , saying that she must first put the skin to test by putting it into the fire.
If it were the real thing it would not burn.
So she took off the crape wrapper and opened the box , and then threw the skin into the fire.
The skin crackled and burnt up at once , and the person_0 knew that this man also had not fulfilled his word.
So the Third person_1 failed also.
Now the Fourth person_1 was no more enterprising than the rest.
Instead of starting out on the quest of the dragon bearing on its head the five-color-radiating jewel , he called all his servants together and gave them the order to seek for it far and wide in Japan and in China , and he strictly forbade any of them to return till they had found it.
His numerous retainers and servants started out in different directions , with no intention , however , of obeying what they considered an impossible order.
They simply took a holiday , went to pleasant country places together , and grumbled at their master 's unreasonableness.
The person_1 meanwhile , thinking that his retainers could not fail to find the jewel , repaired to his house , and fitted it up beautifully for the reception of the person_0 , he felt so sure of winning her.
One year passed away in weary waiting , and still his men did not return with the dragon-jewel.
The person_1 became desperate.
He could wait no longer , so taking with him only two men he hired a ship and commanded the captain to go in search of the dragon ; the captain and the sailors refused to undertake what they said was an absurd search , but the person_1 compelled them at last to put out to sea.
When they had been but a few days out they encountered a great storm which lasted so long that , by the time its fury abated , the person_1 had determined to give up the hunt of the dragon.
They were at last blown on shore , for navigation was primitive in those days.
Worn out with his travels and anxiety , the fourth suitor gave himself up to rest.
He had caught a very heavy cold , and had to go to bed with a swollen face.
The governor of the place , hearing of his plight , sent messengers with a letter inviting him to his house.
While he was there thinking over all his troubles , his love for the person_0 turned to anger , and he blamed her for all the hardships he had undergone.
He thought that it was quite probable she had wished to kill him so that she might be rid of him , and in order to carry out her wish had sent him upon his impossible quest.
At this point all the servants he had sent out to find the jewel came to see him , and were surprised to find praise instead of displeasure awaiting them.
Their master told them that he was heartily sick of adventure , and said that he never intended to go near the person_0 's house again in the future.
Like all the rest , the Fifth person_1 failed in his quest -- he could not find the swallow 's shell.
By this time the fame of person_0 's beauty had reached the ears of the person_3 , and he sent one of the Court ladies to see if she were really as lovely as report said ; if so he would summon her to the Palace and make her one of the ladies-in-waiting.
When the Court lady arrived , in spite of her father 's entreaties , person_0 refused to see her.
The Imperial messenger insisted , saying it was the person_3 's order.
Then person_0 told the old man that if she was forced to go to the Palace in obedience to the person_3 's order , she would vanish from the earth.
When the person_3 was told of her persistence in refusing to obey his summons , and that if pressed to obey she would disappear altogether from sight , he determined to go and see her.
So he planned to go on a hunting excursion in the neighborhood of the bamboo-cutter 's house , and see the person_0 himself.
He sent word to the old man of his intention , and he received consent to the scheme.
The next day the person_3 set out with his retinue , which he soon managed to outride.
He found the bamboo-cutter 's house and dismounted.
He then entered the house and went straight to where the person_0 was sitting with her attendant maidens.
Never had he seen any one so wonderfully beautiful , and he could not but look at her , for she was more lovely than any human being as she shone in her own soft radiance.
When person_0 became aware that a stranger was looking at her she tried to escape from the room , but the person_3 caught her and begged her to listen to what he had to say.
Her only answer was to hide her face in her sleeves.
The person_3 fell deeply in love with her , and begged her to come to the Court , where he would give her a position of honor and everything she could wish for.
He was about to send for one of the Imperial palanquins to take her back with him at once , saying that her grace and beauty should adorn a Court , and not be hidden in a bamboo-cutter 's cottage.
But the person_0 stopped him.
She said that if she were forced to go to the Palace she would turn at once into a shadow , and even as she spoke she began to lose her form.
Her figure faded from his sight while he looked.
The person_3 then promised to leave her free if only she would resume her former shape , which she did.
It was now time for him to return , for his retinue would be wondering what had happened to their Royal master when they missed him for so long.
So be bade her good-by , and left the house with a sad heart.
person_0 was for him the most beautiful woman in the world ; all others were dark beside her , and he thought of her night and day.
His Majesty now spent much of his time in writing poems , telling her of his love and devotion , and sent them to her , and though she refused to see him again she answered with many verses of her own composing , which told him gently and kindly that she could never marry any one on this earth.
These little songs always gave him pleasure.
At this time her foster-parents noticed that night after night the person_0 would sit on her balcony and gaze for hours at the moon , in a spirit of the deepest dejection , ending always in a burst of tears.
One night the old man found her thus weeping as if her heart were broken , and he besought her to tell him the reason of her sorrow.
With many tears she told him that he had guessed rightly when he supposed her not to belong to this world -- that she had in truth come from the moon , and that her time on earth would soon be over.
On the fifteenth day of that very month of August her friends from the moon would come to fetch her , and she would have to return.
Her parents were both there , but having spent a lifetime on the earth she had forgotten them , and also the moon-world to which she belonged.
It made her weep , she said , to think of leaving her kind foster - parents , and the home where she had been happy for so long.
When her attendants heard this they were very sad , and could not eat or drink for sadness at the thought that the person_0 was so soon to leave them.
The person_3 , as soon as the news was carried to him , sent messengers to the house to find out if the report were true or not.
The old bamboo-cutter went out to meet the Imperial messengers.
The last few days of sorrow had told upon the old man ; he had aged greatly , and looked much more than his seventy years.
Weeping bitterly , he told them that the report was only too true , but he intended , however , to make prisoners of the envoys from the moon , and to do all he could to prevent the person_0 from being carried back.
The men returned and told His Majesty all that had passed.
On the fifteenth day of that month the person_3 sent a guard of two thousand warriors to watch the house.
One thousand stationed themselves on the roof , another thousand kept watch round all the entrances of the house.
All were well trained archers , with bows and arrows.
The bamboo-cutter and his wife hid person_0 in an inner room.
The old man gave orders that no one was to sleep that night , all in the house were to keep a strict watch , and be ready to protect the person_0.
With these precautions , and the help of the person_3 's men - at-arms , he hoped to withstand the moon-messengers , but the person_0 told him that all these measures to keep her would be useless , and that when her people came for her nothing whatever could prevent them from carrying out their purpose.
Even the person_3s men would be powerless.
Then she added with tears that she was very , very sorry to leave him and his wife , whom she had learned to love as her parents , that if she could do as she liked she would stay with them in their old age , and try to make some return for all the love and kindness they had showered upon her during all her earthly life.
The night wore on ! The yellow harvest moon rose high in the heavens , flooding the world asleep with her golden light.
Silence reigned over the pine and the bamboo forests , and on the roof where the thousand men-at-arms waited.
Then the night grew gray towards the dawn and all hoped that the danger was over -- that person_0 would not have to leave them after all.
Then suddenly the watchers saw a cloud form round the moon -- and while they looked this cloud began to roll earthwards.
Nearer and nearer it came , and every one saw with dismay that its course lay towards the house.
In a short time the sky was entirely obscured , till at last the cloud lay over the dwelling only ten feet off the ground.
In the midst of the cloud there stood a flying chariot , and in the chariot a band of luminous beings.
One amongst them who looked like a king and appeared to be the chief stepped out of the chariot , and , poised in air , called to the old man to come out.
`` The time has come ,"
he said , `` for person_0 to return to the moon from whence she came.
She committed a grave fault , and as a punishment was sent to live down here for a time.
We know what good care you have taken of the person_0 , and we have rewarded you for this and have sent you wealth and prosperity.
We put the gold in the bamboos for you to find"
`` I have brought up this person_0 for twenty years and never once has she done a wrong thing , therefore the lady you are seeking can not be this one ,"
said the old man.
`` I pray you to look elsewhere"
Then the messenger called aloud , saying : `` person_0 , come out from this lowly dwelling.
Rest not here another moment ,"
At these words the screens of the person_0 's room slid open of their own accord , revealing the person_0 shining in her own radiance , bright and wonderful and full of beauty.
The messenger led her forth and placed her in the chariot.
She looked back , and saw with pity the deep sorrow of the old man.
She spoke to him many comforting words , and told him that it was not her will to leave him and that he must always think of her when looking at the moon.
The bamboo-cutter implored to be allowed to accompany her , but this was not allowed.
The person_0 took off her embroidered outer garment and gave it to him as a keepsake.
One of the moon beings in the chariot held a wonderful coat of wings , another had a phial full of the Elixir of Life which was given the person_0 to drink.
She swallowed a little and was about to give the rest to the old man , but she was prevented from doing so.
The robe of wings was about to be put upon her shoulders , but she said : `` Wait a little.
I must not forget my good friend the person_3.
I must write him once more to say good-by while still in this human form"
In spite of the impatience of the messengers and charioteers she kept them waiting while she wrote.
She placed the phial of the Elixir of Life with the letter , and , giving them to the old man , she asked him to deliver them to the person_3.
Then the chariot began to roll heavenwards towards the moon , and as they all gazed with tearful eyes at the receding person_0 , the dawn broke , and in the rosy light of day the moon-chariot and all in it were lost amongst the fleecy clouds that were now wafted across the sky on the wings of the morning wind.
person_0 's letter was carried to the Palace.
His Majesty was afraid to touch the Elixir of Life , so he sent it with the letter to the top of the most sacred mountain in the land.
Mount Fuji , and there the Royal emissaries burnt it on the summit at sunrise.
So to this day people say there is smoke to be seen rising from the top of Mount Fuji to the clouds"
Long , long ago Japan was governed by Hohodemi , the fourth Mikoto -LRB- or Augustness -RRB- in descent from the illustrious Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess.
He was not only as handsome as his ancestress was beautiful , but he was also very strong and brave , and was famous for being the greatest hunter in the land.
Because of his matchless skill as a hunter , he was called `` Yama-sachi-hiko"
or `` The person_1 of the Mountains"
His elder brother was a very skillful fisher , and as he far surpassed all rivals in fishing , he was named `` Unii-sachi-hiko"
or the `` Skillful Fisher of the person_5"
The brothers thus led happy lives , thoroughly enjoying their respective occupations , and the days passed quickly and pleasantly while each pursued his own way , the one hunting and the other fishing.
One day the person_1 came to his brother , the Skillful Fisher , and said : `` Well , my brother , I see you go to the sea every day with your fishing rod in your hand , and when you return you come laden with fish.
And as for me , it is my pleasure to take my bow and arrow and to hunt the wild animals up the mountains and down in the valleys.
For a long time we have each followed our favorite occupation , so that now we must both be tired , you of your fishing and I of my hunting.
Would it not be wise for us to make a change ? Will you try hunting in the mountains and I will go and fish in the sea ?"
The Skillful Fisher listened in silence to his brother , and for a moment was thoughtful , but at last he answered : `` O yes , why not ? Your idea is not a bad one at all.
Give me your bow and arrow and I will set out at once for the mountains and hunt for game"
So the matter was settled by this talk , and the two brothers each started out to try the other 's occupation , little dreaming of all that would happen.
It was very unwise of them , for the person_1 knew nothing of fishing , and the Skillful Fisher , who was bad tempered , knew as much about hunting.
The person_1 took his brother 's much-prized fishing hook and rod and went down to the seashore and sat down on the rocks.
He baited his hook and then threw it into the sea clumsily.
He sat and gazed at the little float bobbing up and down in the water , and longed for a good fish to come and be caught.
Every time the buoy moved a little he pulled up his rod , but there was never a fish at the end of it , only the hook and the bait.
If he had known how to fish properly , he would have been able to catch plenty of fish , but although he was the greatest hunter in the land he could not help being the most bungling fisher.
The whole day passed in this way , while he sat on the rocks holding the fishing rod and waiting in vain for his luck to turn.
At last the day began to darken , and the evening came ; still he had caught not a single fish.
Drawing up his line for the last time before going home , he found that he had lost his hook without even knowing when he had dropped it.
He now began to feel extremely anxious , for he knew that his brother would be angry at his having lost his hook , for , it being his only one , he valued it above all other things.
The person_1 now set to work to look among the rocks and on the sand for the lost hook , and while he was searching to and fro , his brother , the Skillful Fisher , arrived on the scene.
He had failed to find any game while hunting that day , and was not only in a bad temper , but looked fearfully cross.
When he saw the person_1 searching about on the shore he knew that something must have gone wrong , so he said at once : `` What are you doing , my brother ?"
The person_1 went forward timidly , for he feared his brother 's anger , and said : `` Oh , my brother , I have indeed done badly"
`` What is the matter ? -- what have you done ?"
asked the elder brother impatiently.
`` I have lost your precious fishing hook --"
While he was still speaking his brother stopped him , and cried out fiercely : `` Lost my hook ! It is just what I expected.
For this reason , when you first proposed your plan of changing over our occupations I was really against it , but you seemed to wish it so much that I gave in and allowed you to do as you wished.
The mistake of our trying unfamiliar tasks is soon seen ! And you have done badly.
I will not return you your bow and arrow till you have found my hook.
Look to it that you find it and return it to me quickly"
The person_1 felt that he was to blame for all that had come to pass , and bore his brother 's scornful scolding with humility and patience.
He hunted everywhere for the hook most diligently , but it was nowhere to be found.
He was at last obliged to give up all hope of finding it.
He then went home , and in desperation broke his beloved sword into pieces and made five hundred hooks out of it.
He took these to his angry brother and offered them to him , asking his forgiveness , and begging him to accept them in the place of the one he had lost for him.
It was useless ; his brother would not listen to him , much less grant his request.
The person_1 then made another five hundred hooks , and again took them to his brother , beseeching him to pardon him.
`` Though you make a million hooks ,"
said the Skillful Fisher , shaking his head , `` they are of no use to me.
I can not forgive you unless you bring me back my own hook"
Nothing would appease the anger of the Skillful Fisher , for he had a bad disposition , and had always hated his brother because of his virtues , and now with the excuse of the lost fishing hook he planned to kill him and to usurp his place as ruler of Japan.
The person_1 knew all this full well , but he could say nothing , for being the younger he owed his elder brother obedience ; so he returned to the seashore and once more began to look for the missing hook.
He was much cast down , for he had lost all hope of ever finding his brother 's hook now.
While he stood on the beach , lost in perplexity and wondering what he had best do next , an old man suddenly appeared carrying a stick in his hand.
The person_1 afterwards remembered that he did not see from whence the old man came , neither did he know how he was there -- he happened to look up and saw the old man coming towards him.
`` You are Hohodemi , the Augustness , sometimes called the person_1 , are you not ?"
asked the old man.
`` What are you doing alone in such a place ?"
`` Yes , I am he ,"
answered the unhappy young man.
`` Unfortunately , while fishing I lost my brother 's precious fishing hook.
I have hunted this shore all over , but alas ! I can not find it , and I am very troubled , for my brother wo n't forgive me till I restore it to him.
But who are you ?"
`` My name is Shiwozuchino Okina , and I live near by on this shore.
I am sorry to hear what misfortune has befallen you.
You must indeed be anxious.
But if I tell you what I think , the hook is nowhere here -- it is either at the bottom of the sea or in the body of some fish who has swallowed it , and for this reason , though you spend your whole life in looking for it here , you will never find it"
`` Then what can I do ?"
asked the distressed man.
`` You had better go down to person_0 Gu and tell person_0 , the Dragon person_4 of the person_5 , what your trouble is and ask him to find the hook for you.
I think that would be the best way"
`` Your idea is a splendid one ,"
said the person_1 , `` but I fear I can not get to the person_5 's realm , for I have always heard that it is situated at the bottom of the sea"
`` Oh , there will be no difficulty about your getting there ,"
said the old man ; `` I can soon make something for you to ride on through the sea"
`` Thank you ,"
said the person_1 , `` I shall be very grateful to you if you will be so kind"
The old man at once set to work , and soon made a basket and offered it to the person_1.
He received it with joy , and taking it to the water , mounted it , and prepared to start.
He bade good by to the kind old man who had helped him so much , and told him that he would certainly reward him as soon as he found his hook and could return to Japan without fear of his brother 's anger.
The old man pointed out the direction he must take , and told him how to reach the realm of person_0 Gu , and watched him ride out to sea on the basket , which resembled a small boat.
The person_1 made all the haste he could , riding on the basket which had been given him by his friend.
His queer boat seemed to go through the water of its own accord , and the distance was much shorter than he had expected , for in a few hours he caught sight of the gate and the roof of the person_5 's Palace.
And what a large place it was , with its numberless sloping roofs and gables , its huge gateways , and its gray stone walls ! He soon landed , and leaving his basket on the beach , he walked up to the large gateway.
The pillars of the gate were made of beautiful red coral , and the gate itself was adorned with glittering gems of all kinds.
Large katsura trees overshadowed it.
Our hero had often heard of the wonders of the person_5 's Palace beneath the sea , but all the stories he had ever heard fell short of the reality which he now saw for the first time.
The person_1 would have liked to enter the gate there and then , but he saw that it was fast closed , and also that there was no one about whom he could ask to open it for him , so he stopped to think what he should do.
In the shade of the trees before the gate he noticed a well full of fresh spring water.
Surely some one would come out to draw water from the well some time , he thought.
Then he climbed into the tree overhanging the well , and seated himself to rest on one of the branches , and waited for what might happen.
Ere long he saw the huge gate swing open , and two beautiful women came out.
Now the Mikoto -LRB- Augustness -RRB- had always heard that person_0 Gu was the realm of the Dragon person_4 under the person_5 , and had naturally supposed that the place was inhabited by dragons and similar terrible creatures , so that when he saw these two lovely princesses , whose beauty would be rare even in the world from which he had just come , he was exceedingly surprised , and wondered what it could mean.
He said not a word , however , but silently gazed at them through the foliage of the trees , waiting to see what they would do.
He saw that in their hands they carried golden buckets.
Slowly and gracefully in their trailing garments they approached the well , standing in the shade of the katsura trees , and were about to draw water , all unknowing of the stranger who was watching them , for the person_1 was quite hidden among the branches of the tree where he had posted himself.
As the two ladies leaned over the side of the well to let down their golden buckets , which they did every day in the year , they saw reflected in the deep still water the face of a handsome youth gazing at them from amidst the branches of the tree in whose shade they stood.
Never before had they seen the face of mortal man ; they were frightened , and drew back quickly with their golden buckets in their hands.
Their curiosity , however , soon gave them courage , and they glanced timidly upwards to see the cause of the unusual reflection , and then they beheld the person_1 sitting in the tree looking down at them with surprise and admiration.
They gazed at him face to face , but their tongues were still with wonder and could not find a word to say to him.
When the Mikoto saw that he was discovered , he sprang down lightly from the tree and said : `` I am a traveler , and as I was very thirsty I came to the well in the hopes of quenching my thirst , but I could find no bucket with which to draw the water.
So I climbed into the tree , much vexed , and waited for some one to come.
Just at that moment , while I was thirstily and impatiently waiting , you noble ladies appeared , as if in answer to my great need.
Therefore I pray you of your mercy give me some water to drink , for I am a thirsty traveler in a strange land"
His dignity and graciousness overruled their timidity , and bowing in silence they both once more approached the well , and letting down their golden buckets drew up some water and poured it into a jeweled cup and offered it to the stranger.
He received it from them with both hands , raising it to the height of his forehead in token of high respect and pleasure , and then drank the water quickly , for his thirst was great.
When he had finished his long draught he set the cup down on the edge of the well , and drawing his short sword he cut off one of the strange curved jewels -LRB- magatama -RRB- , a necklace of which hung round his neck and fell over his breast.
He placed the jewel in the cup and returned it to them , and said , bowing deeply : `` This is a token of my thanks !"
The two ladies took the cup , and looking into it to see what he had put inside -- for they did not yet know what it was -- they gave a start of surprise , for there lay a beautiful gem at the bottom of the cup.
`` No ordinary mortal would give away a jewel so freely.
Will you not honor us by telling us who you are ?"
said the elder damsel.
`` Certainly ,"
said the person_1 , `` I am Hohodemi , the fourth Mikoto , also called in Japan , the person_1"
`` Are you indeed Hohodemi , the grandson of Amaterasu , the Sun Goddess ?"
asked the damsel who had spoken first.
`` I am the eldest daughter of person_0 , the person_4 of the person_5 , and my name is Princess Tayotama"
`` And ,"
said the younger maiden , who at last found her tongue , `` I am her sister , the Princess Tamayori"
`` Are you indeed the daughters of person_0 , the person_4 of the person_5 ? I can not tell you how glad I am to meet you ,"
said the person_1.
And without waiting for them to reply he went on : `` The other day I went fishing with my brother 's hook and dropped it , how , I am sure I ca n't tell.
As my brother prizes his fishing hook above all his other possessions , this is the greatest calamity that could have befallen me.
Unless I find it again I can never hope to win my brother 's forgiveness , for he is very angry at what I have done.
I have searched for it many , many times , but I can not find it , therefore I am much troubled.
While I was hunting for the hook , in great distress , I met a wise old man , and he told me that the best thing I could do was to come to person_0 Gu , and to person_0 , the Dragon person_4 of the person_5 , and ask him to help me.
This kind old man also showed me how to come.
Now you know how it is I am here and why.
I want to ask person_0 , if he knows where the lost hook is.
Will you be so kind as to take me to your father ? And do you think he will see me ?"
asked the person_1 anxiously.
Princess Tayotama listened to this long story , and then said : `` Not only is it easy for you to see my father , but he will be much pleased to meet you.
I am sure he will say that good fortune has befallen him , that so great and noble a man as you , the grandson of Amaterasu.
should come down to the bottom of the sea"
And then turning to her younger sister , she said : `` Do you not think so , Tamayori ?"
`` Yes , indeed ,"
answered the Princess Tamayori , in her sweet voice.
`` As you say , we can know no greater honor than to welcome the Mikoto to our home"
`` Then I ask you to be so kind as to lead the way ,"
said the person_1.
`` Condescend to enter , Mikoto -LRB- Augustness -RRB- ,"
said both the sisters , and bowing low , they led him through the gate.
The younger Princess left her sister to take charge of the person_1 , and going faster than they , she reached the person_5 's Palace first , and running quickly to her father 's room , she told him of all that had happened to them at the gate , and that her sister was even now bringing the Augustness to him.
The Dragon person_4 of the person_5 was much surprised at the news , for it was but seldom , perhaps only once in several hundred years , that the person_5 's Palace was visited by mortals.
person_0 at once clapped his hands and summoned all his courtiers and the servants of the Palace , and the chief fish of the sea together , and solemnly told them that the grandson of the Sun Goddess , Amaterasu , was coming to the Palace , and that they must be very ceremonious and polite in serving the August visitor.
He then ordered them all to the entrance of the Palace to welcome the person_1.
person_0 then dressed himself in his robes of ceremony , and went out to welcome him.
In a few moments the Princess Tayotama and the person_1 reached the entrance , and the person_5 and his wife bowed to the ground and thanked him for the honor he did them in coming to see them.
The person_5 then led the person_1 to the guest room , and placing him in the uppermost seat , he bowed respectfully before him , and said : `` I am person_0 , the Dragon person_4 of the person_5 , and this is my wife.
Condescend to remember us forever !"
`` Are you indeed person_0 , the person_4 of the person_5 , of whom I have so often heard ?"
answered the person_1 , saluting his host most ceremoniously.
`` I must apologize for all the trouble I am giving you by my unexpected visit"
And he bowed again , and thanked the person_5.
`` You need not thank me ,"
said person_0.
`` It is I who must thank you for coming.
Although the person_5 Palace is a poor place , as you see , I shall be highly honored if you will make us a long visit"
There was much gladness between the person_5 and the person_1 , and they sat and talked for a long time.
At last the person_5 clapped his hands , and then a huge retinue of fishes appeared , all robed in ceremonial garments , and bearing in their fins various trays on which all kinds of sea delicacies were served.
A great feast was now spread before the person_4 and his Royal guest.
All the fishes-in-waiting were chosen from amongst the finest fish in the sea , so you can imagine what a wonderful array of sea creatures it was that waited upon the person_1 that day.
All in the Palace tried to do their best to please him and to show him that he was a much honored guest.
During the long repast , which lasted for hours , person_0 commanded his daughters to play some music , and the two Princesses came in and performed on the KOTO -LRB- the Japanese harp -RRB- , and sang and danced in turns.
The time passed so pleasantly that the person_1 seemed to forget his trouble and why he had come at all to the person_5 's Realm , and he gave himself up to the enjoyment of this wonderful place , the land of fairy fishes ! Who has ever heard of such a marvelous place ? But the Mikoto soon remembered what had brought him to person_0 Gu , and said to his host : `` Perhaps your daughters have told you , person_4 person_3 , that I have come here to try and recover my brother 's fishing hook , which I lost while fishing the other day.
May I ask you to be so kind as to inquire of all your subjects if any of them have seen a fishing hook lost in the sea ?"
`` Certainly ,"
said the obliging person_5 , `` I will immediately summon them all here and ask them"
As soon as he had issued his command , the octopus , the cuttlefish , the bonito , the oxtail fish , the eel , the jelly fish , the shrimp , and the plaice , and many other fishes of all kinds came in and sat down before person_0 their person_4 , and arranged themselves and their fins in order.
Then the person_5 said solemnly : `` Our visitor who is sitting before you all is the August grandson of Amaterasu.
His name is Hohodemi , the fourth Augustness , and he is also called the person_1 of the Mountains.
While he was fishing the other day upon the shore of Japan , some one robbed him of his brother 's fishing hook.
He has come all this way down to the bottom of the sea to our person_4dom because he thought that one of you fishes may have taken the hook from him in mischievous play.
If any of you have done so you must immediately return it , or if any of you know who the thief is you must at once tell us his name and where he is now"
All the fishes were taken by surprise when they heard these words , and could say nothing for some time.
They sat looking at each other and at the Dragon person_4.
At last the cuttlefish came forward and said : `` I think the TAI -LRB- the red bream -RRB- must be the thief who has stolen the hook !"
`` Where is your proof ?"
asked the person_4.
`` Since yesterday evening the TAI has not been able to eat anything , and he seems to be suffering from a bad throat ! For this reason I think the hook may be in his throat.
You had better send for him at once !"
All the fish agreed to this , and said : `` It is certainly strange that the TAI is the only fish who has not obeyed your summons.
Will you send for him and inquire into the matter.
Then our innocence will be proved"
`` Yes ,"
said the person_5 , `` it is strange that the TAI has not come , for he ought to be the first to be here.
Send for him at once !"
Without waiting for the person_4 's order the cuttlefish had already started for the TAI 'S dwelling , and he now returned , bringing the TAI with him.
He led him before the person_4.
The TAI sat there looking frightened and ill.
.
He certainly was in pain , for his usually red face was pale , and his eyes were nearly closed and looked but half their usual size.
`` Answer , O TAI !"
cried the person_5 , `` why did you not come in answer to my summons today ?"
`` I have been ill since yesterday ,"
answered the TAI ; `` that is why I could not come"
`` Do n't say another word !"
cried out person_0 angrily.
`` Your illness is the punishment of the gods for stealing the Mikoto 's hook"
`` It is only too true !"
said the TAI ; `` the hook is still in my throat , and all my efforts to get it out have been useless.
I ca n't eat , and I can scarcely breathe , and each moment I feel that it will choke me , and sometimes it gives me great pain.
I had no intention of stealing the Mikoto 's hook.
I heedlessly snapped at the bait which I saw in the water , and the hook came off and stuck in my throat.
So I hope you will pardon me"
The cuttlefish now came forward , and said to the person_4 : `` What I said was right.
You see the hook still sticks in the TAI 'S throat.
I hope to be able to pull it out in the presence of the Mikoto , and then we can return it to him safely !"
`` O please make haste and pull it out !"
cried the TAI , pitifully , for he felt the pains in his throat coming on again ; `` I do so want to return the hook to the Mikoto"
`` All right , TAI SAN ,"
said his friend the cuttlefish , and then opening the TAI 'S mouth as wide as he could and putting one of his feelers down the TAI 'S throat , he quickly and easily drew the hook out of the sufferer 's large mouth.
He then washed it and brought it to the person_4.
person_0 took the hook from his subject , and then respectfully returned it to the person_1 -LRB- the Mikoto or Augustness , the fishes called him -RRB- , who was overjoyed at getting back his hook.
He thanked person_0 many times , his face beaming with gratitude , and said that he owed the happy ending of his quest to the person_5 's wise authority and kindness.
person_0 now desired to punish the TAI , but the person_1 begged him not to do so ; since his lost hook was thus happily recovered he did not wish to make more trouble for the poor TAI.
It was indeed the TAI who had taken the hook , but he had already suffered enough for his fault , if fault it could be called.
What had been done was done in heedlessness and not by intention.
The person_1 said he blamed himself ; if he had understood how to fish properly he would never have lost his hook , and therefore all this trouble had been caused in the first place by his trying to do something which he did not know how to do.
So he begged the person_5 to forgive his subject.
Who could resist the pleading of so wise and compassionate a judge ? person_0 forgave his subject at once at the request of his August guest.
The TAI was so glad that he shook his fins for joy , and he and all the other fish went out from the presence of their person_4 , praising the virtues of the person_1.
Now that the hook was found the person_1 had nothing to keep him in person_0 Gu , and he was anxious to get back to his own kingdom and to make peace with his angry brother , the Skillful Fisher ; but the person_5 , who had learned to love him and would fain have kept him as a son , begged him not to go so soon , but to make the person_5 Palace his home as long as ever he liked.
While the person_1 was still hesitating , the two lovely Princesses , Tayotama and Tamayori , came , and with the sweetest of bows and voices joined with their father in pressing him to stay , so that without seeming ungracious he could not say them `` Nay ,"
and was obliged to stay on for some time.
Between the person_5 Realm and the Earth there was no difference in the night of time , and the person_1 found that three years went fleeting quickly by in this delightful land.
The years pass swiftly when any one is truly happy.
But though the wonders of that enchanted land seemed to be new every day , and though the person_5 's kindness seemed rather to increase than to grow less with time , the person_1 grew more and more homesick as the days passed , and he could not repress a great anxiety to know what had happened to his home and his country and his brother while he had been away.
So at last he went to the person_5 and said : `` My stay with you here has been most happy and I am very grateful to you for all your kindness to me , but I govern Japan , and , delightful as this place is , I can not absent myself forever from my country.
I must also return the fishing hook to my brother and ask his forgiveness for having deprived him of it for so long.
I am indeed very sorry to part from you , but this time it can not be helped.
With your gracious permission , I will take my leave to-day.
I hope to make you another visit some day.
Please give up the idea of my staying longer now"
person_4 person_3 was overcome with sorrow at the thought that he must lose his friend who had made a great diversion in the Palace of the person_5 , and his tears fell fast as he answered : `` We are indeed very sorry to part with you , Mikoto , for we have enjoyed your stay with us very much.
You have been a noble and honored guest and we have heartily made you welcome.
I quite understand that as you govern Japan you ought to be there and not here , and that it is vain for us to try and keep you longer with us , much as we would like to have you stay.
I hope you will not forget us.
Strange circumstances have brought us together and I trust the friendship thus begun between the Land and the person_5 will last and grow stronger than it has ever been before"
When the person_5 had finished speaking he turned to his two daughters and bade them bring him the two Tide-Jewels of the person_5.
The two Princesses bowed low , rose and glided out of the hall.
In a few minutes they returned , each one carrying in her hands a flashing gem which filled the room with light.
As the person_1 looked at them he wondered what they could be.
The person_5 took them from his daughters and said to his guest : `` These two valuable talismans we have inherited from our ancestors from time immemorial.
We now give them to you as a parting gift in token of our great affection for you.
These two gems are called the nanjiu and the kanjiu"
The person_1 bowed low to the ground and said : `` I can never thank you enough for all your kindness to me.
And now will you add one more favor to the rest and tell me what these jewels are and what I am to do with them ?"
`` The nanjiu ,"
answered the person_5 , `` is also called the Jewel of the Flood Tide , and whoever holds it in his possession can command the sea to roll in and to flood the land at any time that he wills.
The kanjiu is also called the Jewel of the Ebbing Tide , and this gem controls the sea and the waves thereof , and will cause even a tidal wave to recede"
Then person_0 showed his friend how to use the talismans one by one and handed them to him.
The person_1 was very glad to have these two wonderful gems , the Jewel of the Flood Tide and the Jewel of the Ebbing Tide , to take back with him , for he felt that they would preserve him in case of danger from enemies at any time.
After thanking his kind host again and again , he prepared to depart.
The person_5 and the two Princesses , Tayotama and Tamayori , and all the inmates of the Palace , came out to say `` Good-by ,"
and before the sound of the last farewell had died away the person_1 passed out from under the gateway , past the well of happy memory standing in the shade of the great KATSURA trees on his way to the beach.
Here he found , instead of the queer basket on which he had come to the Realm of person_0 Gu , a large crocodile waiting for him.
Never had he seen such a huge creature.
It measured eight fathoms in length from the tip of its tail to the end of its long mouth.
The person_5 had ordered the monster to carry the person_1 back to Japan.
Like the wonderful basket which Shiwozuchino Okina had made , it could travel faster than any steamboat , and in this strange way , riding on the back of a crocodile , the person_1 returned to his own land.
As soon as the crocodile landed him , the person_1 hastened to tell the Skillful Fisher of his safe return.
He then gave him back the fishing hook which had been found in the mouth of the TAI and which had been the cause of so much trouble between them.
He earnestly begged his brother 's forgiveness , telling him all that had happened to him in the person_5 's Palace and what wonderful adventures had led to the finding of the hook.
Now the Skillful Fisher had used the lost hook as an excuse for driving his brother out of the country.
When his brother had left him that day three years ago , and had not returned , he had been very glad in his evil heart and had at once usurped his brother 's place as ruler of the land , and had become powerful and rich.
Now in the midst of enjoying what did not belong to him , and hoping that his brother might never return to claim his rights , quite unexpectedly there stood the person_1 before him.
The Skillful Fisher feigned forgiveness , for he could make no more excuses for sending his brother away again , but in his heart he was very angry and hated his brother more and more , till at last be could no longer bear the sight of him day after day , and planned and watched for an opportunity to kill him.
One day when the person_1 was walking in the rice fields his brother followed him with a dagger.
The person_1 knew that his brother was following him to kill him , and he felt that now , in this hour of great danger , was the time to use the Jewels of the Flow and Ebb of the Tide and prove whether what the person_5 had told him was true or not.
So he took out the Jewel of the Flood Tide from the bosom of his dress and raised it to his forehead.
Instantly over the fields and over the farms the sea came rolling in wave upon wave till it reached the spot where his brother was standing.
The Skillful Fisher stood amazed and terrified to see what was happening.
In another minute he was struggling in the water and calling on his brother to save him from drowning.
The person_1 had a kind heart and could not bear the sight of his brother 's distress.
He at once put back the Jewel of the Flood Tide and took out the Jewel of the Ebb Tide.
No sooner did he hold it up as high as his forehead than the sea ran back and back , and ere long the tossing rolling floods had vanished , and the farms and fields and dry land appeared as before.
The Skillful Fisher was very frightened at the peril of death in which he had stood , and was greatly impressed by the wonderful things he had seen his brother do.
He learned now that he was making a fatal mistake to set himself against his brother , younger than he thought he was , for he now had become so powerful that the sea would flow in and the tide ebb at his word of command.
So he humbled himself before the person_1 and asked him to forgive him all the wrong he had done him.
The Skillful Fisher promised to restore his brother to his rights and also swore that though the person_1 was the younger brother and owed him allegiance by right of birth , that he , the Skillful Fisher , would exalt him as his superior and bow before him as Lord of all Japan.
Then the person_1 said that he would forgive his brother if he would throw into the receding tide all his evil ways.
The Skillful Fisher promised and there was peace between the two brothers.
From this time he kept his word and became a good man and a kind brother.
The person_1 now ruled his person_4dom without being disturbed by family strife , and there was peace in Japan for a long , long time.
Above all the treasures in his house he prized the wonderful Jewels of the Flow and Ebb of the Tide which had been given him by person_0 , the Dragon person_4 of the person_5.
This is the congratulatory ending of the person_1 and the Skillful Fisher"
There is a street in Copenhagen that has this strange name -- `` Hysken Straede"
Whence comes this name , and what is its meaning ? It is said to be German ; but injustice has been done to the Germans in this matter , for it would have to be `` Haeuschen ,"
and not `` Hysken"
For here stood , once upon a time , and indeed for a great many years , a few little houses , which were principally nothing more than wooden booths , just as we see now in the market-places at fair-time.
They were , perhaps , a little larger , and had windows ; but the panes consisted of horn or bladder , for glass was then too expensive to be used in every house.
But then we are speaking of a long time ago -- so long since , that grandfather and great-grandfather , when they talked about them , used to speak of them as `` the old times"
-- in fact , it is several centuries ago.
The rich merchants in Bremen and Lubeck carried on trade with Copenhagen.
They did not reside in the town themselves , but sent their clerks , who lived in the wooden booths in the Haeuschen Street , and sold beer and spices.
The German beer was good , and there were many kinds of it , as there were , for instance , Bremen , and Prussinger , and Sous beer , and even Brunswick mumm ; and quantities of spices were sold -- saffron , and aniseed , and ginger , and especially pepper.
Yes , pepper was the chief article here , and so it happened that the German clerks got the nickname `` pepper gentry ;"
and there was a condition made with them in Lubeck and in Bremen , that they would not marry at Copenhagen , and many of them became very old.
They had to care for themselves , and to look after their own comforts , and to put out their own fires -- when they had any ; and some of them became very solitary old boys , with eccentric ideas and eccentric habits.
From them all unmarried men , who have attained a certain age , are called in Denmark `` pepper gentry ;"
and this must be understood by all who wish to comprehend this history.
The `` pepper gentleman"
becomes a butt for ridicule , and is continually told that he ought to put on his nightcap , and draw it down over his eyes , and do nothing but sleep.
The boys sing , `` Cut , cut wood ! Poor bachelor so good.
Go , take your nightcap , go to rest , For ` tis the nightcap suits you best !"
Yes , that 's what they sing about the `` pepperer"
-- thus they make game of the poor bachelor and his nightcap , and turn it into ridicule , just because they know very little about either.
Ah , that kind of nightcap no one should wish to earn ! And why not ? -- We shall hear.
-LRB- Illustration : THE PEPPERER 'S BOOTH.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa In the old times the `` Housekin Street"
was not paved , and the people stumbled out of one hole into another , as in a neglected bye-way ; and it was narrow too.
The booths leaned side by side , and stood so close together that in the summer time a sail was often stretched from one booth to its opposite neighbor , on which occasion the fragrance of pepper , saffron , and ginger became doubly powerful.
Behind the counters young men were seldom seen.
The clerks were generally old boys ; but they did not look like what we should fancy them , namely , with wig , and nightcap , and plush small-clothes , and with waistcoat and coat buttoned up to the chin.
No , grandfather 's great-grandfather may look like that , and has been thus portrayed , but the `` pepper gentry"
had no superfluous means , and accordingly did not have their portraits taken ; though , indeed , it would be interesting now to have a picture of one of them , as he stood behind the counter or went to church on holy days.
His hat was high-crowned and broad-brimmed , and sometimes one of the youngest clerks would mount a feather.
The woollen shirt was hidden behind a broad linen collar , the close jacket was buttoned up to the chin , and the cloak hung loose over it ; and the trousers were tucked into the broad-toed shoes , for the clerks did not wear stockings.
In their girdles they sported a dinner-knife and spoon , and a larger knife was placed there also for the defense of the owner ; and this weapon was often very necessary.
Just so was person_3 , one of the oldest clerks , clad on high days and holy days , except that , instead of a high-crowned hat , he wore a low bonnet , and under it a knitted cap -LRB- a regular nightcap -RRB- , to which he had grown so accustomed that it was always on his head ; and he had two of them -- nightcaps , of course.
The old fellow was a subject for a painter.
He was as thin as a lath , had wrinkles clustering round his eyes and mouth , and long bony fingers , and bushy gray eyebrows : over the left eye hung quite a tuft of hair , and that did not look very handsome , though it made him very noticeable.
People knew that he came from Bremen ; but that was not his native place , though his master lived there.
His own native place was in Thuringia , the town of person_1 , close by the Wartburg.
Old person_3 did not speak much of this , but he thought of it all the more.
The old clerks of the Haeuschen Street did not often come together.
Each one remained in his booth , which was closed early in the evening ; and then it looked dark enough in the street : only a faint glimmer of light forced its way through the little horn-pane in the roof ; and in the booth sat , generally on his bed , the old bachelor , his German hymn-book in his hand , singing an evening psalm in a low voice ; or he went about in the booth till late into the night , and busied himself about all sorts of things.
It was certainly not an amusing life.
To be a stranger in a strange land is a bitter lot : nobody cares for you , unless you happen to get in anybody 's way.
Often when it was dark night outside , with snow and rain , the place looked very gloomy and lonely.
No lamps were to be seen , with the exception of one solitary light hanging before the picture of the Virgin that was fastened against the wall.
The plash of the water against the neighbouring rampart at the castle wharf could be plainly heard.
Such evenings are long and dreary , unless people devise some employment for themselves.
There is not always packing or unpacking to do , nor can the scales be polished or paper bags be made continually ; and , failing these , people should devise other employment for themselves.
And that is just what old person_3 did ; for he used to mend his clothes and put pieces on his boots.
When he at last sought his couch , he used from habit to keep his nightcap on.
He drew it down a little closer ; but soon he would push it up again , to see if the light had been properly extinguished.
He would touch it , press the wick together , and then lie down on the other side , and draw his nightcap down again ; but then a doubt would come upon him , if every coal in the little fire-pan below had been properly deadened and put out -- a tiny spark might have been left burning , and might set fire to something and cause damage.
And therefore he rose from his bed , and crept down the ladder , for it could scarcely be called a stair.
And when he came to the fire-pan not a spark was to be discovered , and he might just go back again.
But often , when he had gone half of the way back , it would occur to him that the shutters might not be securely fastened ; yes , then his thin legs must carry him downstairs once more.
He was cold , and his teeth chattered in his mouth when he crept back again to bed ; for the cold seems to become doubly severe when it knows it can not stay much longer.
He drew up the coverlet closer around him , and pulled down the nightcap lower over his brows , and turned his thoughts away from trade and from the labors of the day.
But that did not procure him agreeable entertainment ; for now old thoughts came and put up their curtains , and these curtains have sometimes pins in them , with which one pricks oneself , and one cries out `` Oh !"
and they prick into one 's flesh and burn so , that the tears sometimes come into one 's eyes ; and that often happened to old person_3 -- hot tears.
The largest pearls streamed forth , and fell on the coverlet or on the floor , and then they sounded as if one of his heart-strings had broken.
Sometimes again they seemed to rise up in flame , illuminating a picture of life that never faded out of his heart.
If he then dried his eyes with his nightcap , the tear and the picture were indeed crushed , but the source of the tears remained , and welled up afresh from his heart.
The pictures did not come up in the order in which the scenes had occurred in reality , for very often the most painful would come together ; then again the most joyful would come , but these had the deepest shadows of all.
The beech woods of Denmark are acknowledged to be fine , but the woods of Thuringia arose far more beautiful in the eyes of person_3.
More mighty and more venerable seemed to him the old oaks around the proud knightly castle , where the creeping plants hung down over the stony blocks of the rock ; sweeter there bloomed the flowers of the apple tree than in the Danish land.
This he remembered very vividly.
A glittering tear rolled down over his cheek ; and in this tear he could plainly see two children playing -- a boy and a girl.
The boy had red cheeks , and yellow curling hair , and honest blue eyes.
He was the son of the merchant person_3 -- it was himself.
The little girl had brown eyes and black hair , and had a bright clever look.
She was the burgomaster 's daughter person_2.
The two were playing with an apple.
They shook the apple , and heard the pips rattling in it.
Then they cut the apple in two , and each of them took a half ; they divided even the pips , and ate them all but one , which the little girl proposed that they should lay in the earth.
`` Then you shall see ,"
she said , `` what will come out.
It will be something you do n't at all expect.
A whole apple tree will come out , but not directly"
And she put the pip in a flower-pot , and both were very busy and eager about it.
The boy made a hole in the earth with his finger , and the little girl dropped the pip in it , and they both covered it with earth.
`` Now , you must not take it out to-morrow to see if it has struck root ,"
said person_2.
`` That wo n't do at all.
I did it with my flowers ; but only twice.
I wanted to see if they were growing -- and I did n't know any better then -- and the plants withered"
person_3 took away the flower-pot , and every morning , the whole winter through , he looked at it ; but nothing was to be seen but the black earth.
At length , however , the spring came , and the sun shone warm again ; and two little green leaves came up out of the pot.
`` Those are for me and person_2 ,"
said the boy.
`` That 's beautiful -- that 's marvellously beautiful !"
Soon a third leaf made its appearance.
Whom did that represent ? Yes , and there came another , and yet another.
Day by day and week by week they grew larger , and the plant began to take the form of a real tree.
And all this was now mirrored in a single tear , which was wiped away and disappeared ; but it might come again from its source in the heart of old person_3.
In the neighborhood of person_1 a row of stony mountains rises up.
One of these mountains is round in outline , and lifts itself above the rest , naked and without tree , bush , or grass.
It is called the Venus Mount.
In this mountain dwells Lady Venus , one of the deities of the heathen times.
She is also called Lady person_0 ; and every child in and around person_1 has heard about her.
She it was who lured Tannhauser , the noble knight and minstrel , from the circle of the singers of the Wartburg into her mountain.
-LRB- Illustration : IMPERTINENT MOLLY.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Little person_2 and person_3 often stood by this mountain ; and once person_2 said : `` You may knock and say , ` Lady person_0 , open the door -- Tannhauser is here !"
But person_3 did not dare.
person_2 , however , did it , though she only said the words `` Lady person_0 , Lady person_0 !"
aloud and distinctly ; the rest she muttered so indistinctly that person_3 felt convinced she had not really said anything ; and yet she looked as bold and saucy as possible -- as saucy as when she sometimes came round him with other little girls in the garden , and all wanted to kiss him because he did not like to be kissed and tried to keep them off ; and she was the only one who dared to kiss him in spite of his resistance"
_ I _ may kiss him !"
she would say proudly.
That was her vanity ; and person_3 submitted , and thought no more about it.
How charming and how teasing person_2 was ! It was said that Lady person_0 in the mountain was beautiful also , but that her beauty was like that of a tempting fiend.
The greatest beauty and grace was possessed by Saint Elizabeth , the patron of the country , the pious Princess of Thuringia , whose good actions have been immortalized in many places in legends and stories.
In the chapel her picture was hanging , surrounded by silver lamps ; but it was not in the least like person_2.
The apple tree which the two children had planted grew year by year , and became taller and taller -- so tall , that it had to be transplanted into the garden , into the fresh air , where the dew fell and the sun shone warm.
And the tree developed itself strongly , so that it could resist the winter.
And it seemed as if , after the rigor of the cold season was past , it put forth blossoms in spring for very joy.
In the autumn it brought two apples -- one for person_2 and one for person_3.
It could not well have produced less.
The tree had grown apace , and person_2 grew like the tree.
She was as fresh as an apple-blossom ; but person_3 was not long to behold this flower.
All things change ! person_2 's father left his old home , and person_2 went with him , far away.
Yes , in our time steam has made the journey they took a matter of a few hours , but then more than a day and a night were necessary to go so far eastward from person_1 to the furthest border of Thuringia , to the city which is still called Weimar.
And person_2 wept , and person_3 wept ; but all their tears melted into one , and this tear had the rosy , charming hue of joy.
For person_2 told him she loved him -- loved him more than all the splendors of Weimar.
One , two , three years went by , and during this period two letters were received.
One came by a carrier , and a traveller brought the other.
The way was long and difficult , and passed through many windings by towns and villages.
Often had person_2 and person_3 heard of Tristram and Iseult , and often had the boy applied the story to himself and person_2 , though the name Tristram was said to mean `` born in tribulation ,"
and that did not apply to person_3 , nor would he ever be able to think , like Tristram , `` She has forgotten me"
But , indeed , Iseult did not forget her faithful knight ; and when both were laid to rest in the earth , one on each side of the church , the linden trees grew from their graves over the church roof , and there encountered each other in bloom.
person_3 thought that was beautiful , but mournful ; but it could not become mournful between him and person_2 : and he whistled a song of the old minne-singer , Walter of the Vogelverde : `` Under the lindens Upon the heath"
And especially that passage appeared charming to him : `` From the forest , down in the vale , Sang her sweet song the nightingale"
This song was often in his mouth , and he sang and whistled it in the moonlight nights , when he rode along the deep hollow way on horseback to get to Weimar and visit person_2.
He wished to come unexpectedly , and he came unexpectedly.
He was made welcome with full goblets of wine , with jovial company , fine company , and a pretty room and a good bed were provided for him ; and yet his reception was not what he had dreamt and fancied it would be.
He could not understand himself -- he could not understand the others : but _ we _ can understand it.
One may be admitted into a house and associate with a family without becoming one of them.
One may converse together as one would converse in a post-carriage , and know one another as people know each other on a journey , each incommoding the other and wishing that either oneself or the good neighbor were away.
Yes , this was the kind of thing person_3 felt.
`` I am an honest girl ,"
said person_2 ; `` and I myself will tell you what it is.
Much has changed since we were children together -- changed inwardly and outwardly.
Habit and will have no power over our hearts.
person_3 , I should not like to have an enemy in you , now that I shall soon be far away from here.
Believe me , I entertain the best wishes for you ; but to feel for you what I know now one may feel for a man , has never been the case with me.
You must reconcile yourself to this.
Farewell , person_3 !"
And person_3 bade her farewell.
No tear came into his eye , but he felt that he was no longer person_2 's friend.
Hot iron and cold iron alike take the skin from our lips , and we have the same feeling when we kiss it : and he kissed himself into hatred as into love.
Within twenty-four hours person_3 was back in person_1 , though certainly the horse on which he rode was ruined.
`` What matter !"
he said : `` I am ruined too ; and I will destroy everything that can remind me of her , or of Lady person_0 , or Venus the heathen woman ! I will break down the apple tree and tear it up by the roots , so that it shall never bear flower or fruit more !"
But the apple tree was not broken down , though he himself was broken down , and bound on a couch by fever.
What was it that raised him up again ? A medicine was presented to him which had strength to do this -- the bitterest of medicines , that shakes up body and spirit together.
person_3 's father ceased to be the richest of merchants.
Heavy days -- days of trial -- were at the door ; misfortune came rolling into the house like great waves of the sea.
The father became a poor man.
Sorrow and suffering took away his strength.
Then person_3 had to think of something else besides nursing his love-sorrows and his anger against person_2.
He had to take his father 's place -- to give orders , to help , to act energetically , and at last to go out into the world and earn his bread.
person_3 went to Bremen.
There he learned what poverty and hard living meant ; and these sometimes make the heart hard , and sometimes soften it , even too much.
How different the world was , and how different the people were from what he had supposed them to be in his childhood ! What were the minne-singer 's songs to him now ? -- an echo , a vanishing sound ! Yes , that is what he thought sometimes ; but again the songs would sound in his soul , and his heart became gentle.
`` God 's will is best !"
he would say then.
`` It was well that I was not permitted to keep person_2 's heart -- that she did not remain true to me.
What would it have led to now , when fortune has turned away from me ? She quitted me before she knew of this loss of prosperity , or had any notion of what awaited me.
That was a mercy of Providence towards me.
Everything has happened for the best.
It was not her fault -- and I have been so bitter , and have shown so much rancor towards her !"
And years went by.
person_3 's father was dead , and strangers lived in the old house.
But person_3 was destined to see it again.
His rich employer sent him on commercial journeys , and his duty led him into his native town of person_1.
The old Wartburg stood unchanged on the mountain , with `` the monk and the nun"
hewn out in stone.
The great oaks gave to the scene the outlines it had possessed in his childish days.
The Venus Mount glimmered gray and naked over the valley.
He would have been glad to cry , `` Lady person_0 , Lady person_0 , unlock the door , and I shall enter and remain in my native earth !"
That was a sinful thought , and he blessed himself to drive it away.
Then a little bird out of the thicket sang clearly , and the old minne-song came into his mind : `` From the forest , down in the vale , Sang her sweet song the nightingale"
And here in the town of his childhood , which he thus saw again through tears , much came back into his remembrance.
The paternal house stood as in the old times ; but the garden was altered , and a field-path led over a portion of the old ground , and the apple tree that he had not broken down stood there , but outside the garden , on the farther side of the path.
But the sun threw its rays on the apple tree as in the old days , the dew descended gently upon it as then , and it bore such a burden of fruit that the branches were bent down towards the earth.
`` That flourishes !"
he said.
`` The tree can grow !"
Nevertheless , one of the branches of the tree was broken.
Mischievous hands had torn it down towards the ground ; for now the tree stood by the public way.
`` They break its blossoms off without a feeling of thankfulness -- they steal its fruit and break the branches.
One might say of the tree as has been said of some men -- ` It was not sung at his cradle that it should come thus.
' How brightly its history began , and what has it come to ? Forsaken and forgotten -- a garden tree by the hedge , in the field , and on the public way ! There it stands unprotected , plundered , and broken ! It has certainly not died , but in the course of years the number of blossoms will diminish ; at last the fruit will cease altogether ; and at last -- at last all will be over !"
Such were person_3 's thoughts under the tree ; such were his thoughts during many a night in the lonely chamber of the wooden house in the distant land -- in the Haeuschen Street in Copenhagen , whither his rich employer , the Bremen merchant , had sent him , first making it a condition that he should not marry.
`` Marry ! Ha , ha !"
he laughed bitterly to himself.
Winter had set in early ; it was freezing hard.
Without , a snow-storm was raging , so that every one who could do so remained at home ; thus , too , it happened that those who lived opposite to person_3 did not notice that for two days his house had not been unlocked , and that he did not show himself ; for who would go out unnecessarily in such weather ? They were gray , gloomy days ; and in the house , whose windows were not of glass , twilight only alternated with dark night.
Old person_3 had not left his bed during the two days , for he had not the strength to rise ; he had for a long time felt in his limbs the hardness of the weather.
Forsaken by all , lay the old bachelor , unable to help himself.
He could scarcely reach the water-jug that he had placed by his bedside , and the last drop it contained had been consumed.
It was not fever , nor sickness , but old age that had struck him down.
Up yonder , where his couch was placed , he was overshadowed as it were by continual night.
A little spider , which , however , he could not see , busily and cheerfully span its web around him , as if it were weaving a little crape banner that should wave when the old man closed his eyes.
The time was very slow , and long , and dreary.
Tears he had none to shed , nor did he feel pain.
The thought of person_2 never came into his mind.
He felt as if the world and its noise concerned him no longer -- as if he were lying outside the world , and no one were thinking of him.
For a moment he felt a sensation of hunger -- of thirst.
Yes , he felt them both.
But nobody came to tend him -- nobody.
He thought of those who had once suffered want ; of Saint Elizabeth , as she had once wandered on earth ; of her , the saint of his home and of his childhood , the noble Duchess of Thuringia , the benevolent lady who had been accustomed to visit the lowliest cottages , bringing to the inmates refreshment and comfort.
Her pious deeds shone bright upon his soul.
He thought of her as she had come to distribute words of comfort , binding up the wounds of the afflicted , giving meat to the hungry ; though her stern husband had chidden her for it.
He thought of the legend told of her , how she had been carrying the full basket containing food and wine , when her husband , who watched her footsteps , came forth and asked angrily what she was carrying , whereupon she answered , in fear and trembling , that the basket contained roses which she had plucked in the garden ; how he had torn away the white cloth from the basket , and a miracle had been performed for the pious lady ; for bread , and wine , and everything in the basket had been transformed into roses ! Thus the saint 's memory dwelt in person_3 's quiet mind ; thus she stood bodily before his downcast face , before his warehouse in the simple booth in the Danish land.
He uncovered his head , and looked into her gentle eyes , and everything around him was beautiful and roseate.
Yes , the roses seemed to unfold themselves in fragrance.
There came to him a sweet , peculiar odour of apples , and he saw a blooming apple tree , which spread its branches above him -- it was the tree which person_2 and he had planted together.
And the tree strewed down its fragrant leaves upon him , cooling his burning brow.
The leaves fell upon his parched lips , and were like strengthening bread and wine ; and they fell upon his breast , and he felt reassured and calm , and inclined to sleep peacefully.
`` Now I shall sleep ,"
he whispered to himself.
`` Sleep is refreshing.
To-morrow I shall be upon my feet again , and strong and well -- glorious , wonderful ! That apple tree , planted in true affection , now stands before me in heavenly radiance --"
-LRB- Illustration : THE OPPOSITE NEIGHBOUR LOOKS AFTER OLD ANTHONY.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa And he slept.
The day afterwards -- it was the third day that his shop had remained closed -- the snow-storm had ceased , and a neighbor from the opposite house came over towards the booth where dwelt old person_3 , who had not yet shown himself.
person_3 lay stretched upon his bed -- dead -- with his old cap clutched tightly in his two hands ! They did not put that cap on his head in his coffin , for he had a new white one.
Where were now the tears that he had wept ? What had become of the pearls ? They remained in the nightcap -- and the true ones do not come out in the wash -- they were preserved in the nightcap , and in time forgotten ; but the old thoughts and the old dreams still remained in the `` bachelor 's nightcap"
Do n't wish for such a cap for yourself.
It would make your forehead very hot , would make your pulse beat feverishly , and conjure up dreams which appear like reality.
The first who wore that identical cap afterwards felt all that at once , though it was half a century afterwards ; and that man was the burgomaster himself , who , with his wife and eleven children , was well and firmly established , and had amassed a very tolerable amount of wealth.
He was immediately seized with dreams of unfortunate love , of bankruptcy , and of heavy times.
`` Hallo ! how the nightcap burns !"
he cried out , and tore it from his head.
And a pearl rolled out , and another , and another , and they sounded and glittered.
`` This must be gout ,"
said the burgomaster.
`` Something dazzles my eyes !"
They were tears , shed half a century before by old person_3 from person_1.
Every one who afterwards put that nightcap upon his head had visions and dreams which excited him not a little.
His own history was changed into that of person_3 , and became a story ; in fact , many stories.
But some one else may tell _ them _.
We have told the first.
And our last word is -- do n't wish for `` The Old Bachelor 's Nightcap"
There once was a king of person_2 , who at the beginning of his reign had distinguished himself by many glorious and successful conquests , and had afterwards enjoyed such profound peace and tranquillity as rendered him the happiest of monarchs.
His only occasion for regret was that he had no heir to succeed him in the kingdom after his death.
One day , according to the custom of his royal predecessors during their residence in the capital , he held an assembly of his courtiers , at which all the ambassadors and strangers of renown at his court were present.
Among these there appeared a merchant from a far-distant country , who sent a message to the king craving an audience , as he wished to speak to him about a very important matter.
The king gave orders for the merchant to be instantly admitted ; and when the assembly was over , and all the rest of the company had retired , the king inquired what was the business which had brought him to the palace.
` Sire , ' replied the merchant , ` I have with me , and beg your majesty to behold , the most beautiful and charming slave it would be possible to find if you searched every corner of the earth ; if you will but see her , you will surely wish to make her your wife.
' The fair slave was , by the king 's commands , immediately brought in , and no sooner had the king beheld a lady whose beauty and grace surpassed anything he had ever imagined , than he fell passionately in love with her , and determined to marry her at once.
This was done.
So the king caused the fair slave to be lodged in the next finest apartment to his own , and gave particular orders to the matrons and the women-slaves appointed to attend her , that they should dress her in the richest robe they could find , and carry her the finest pearl necklaces , the brightest diamonds , and other the richest precious stones , that she might choose those she liked best.
The person_0 of person_2 's capital was situated in an island ; and his palace , which was very magnificent , was built upon the sea-shore ; his window looked towards the sea ; and the fair slave 's , which was pretty near it , had also the same prospect , and it was the more pleasant on account of the sea 's beating almost against the foot of the wall.
At the end of three days the fair slave , magnificently dressed , was alone in her chamber , sitting upon a sofa , and leaning against one of the windows that faced the sea , when the king , being informed that he might visit her , came in.
The slave hearing somebody walk in the room , immediately turned her head to see who it was.
She knew him to be the king ; but without showing the least surprise , or so much as rising from her seat to salute or receive him , she turned back to the window again as if he had been the most insignificant person in the world.
The person_0 of person_2 was extremely surprised to see a slave of so beauteous a form so very ignorant of the world.
He attributed this to the narrowness of her education , and the little care that had been taken to instruct her in the first rules of civility.
He went to her at the window , where , notwithstanding the coldness and indifference with which she had just now received him , she suffered herself to be admired , kissed and embraced as much as he pleased , but answered him not a word.
` My dearest life , ' said the king , ` you neither answer , nor by any visible token give me the least reason to believe that you are listening to me.
Why will you still keep to this obstinate silence , which chills me ? Do you mourn for your country , your friends , or your relations ? Alas ! is not the person_0 of person_2 , who loves and adores you , capable of comforting , and making you amends for the loss of everything in the world ? ' But the fair slave continued her astonishing reserve ; and keeping her eyes still fixed upon the ground , would neither look at him nor utter a word ; but after they had dined together in absolute silence , the king went to the women whom he had assigned to the fair slave as her attendants , and asked them if they had ever heard her speak.
One of them presently made answer , ` Sire , we have neither seen her open her lips , nor heard her speak any more than your majesty has just now ; we have rendered her our services ; we have combed and dressed her hair , put on her clothes , and waited upon her in her chamber ; but she has never opened her lips , so much as to say , That is well , or , I like this.
We have often asked , Madam , do you want anything ? Is there anything you wish for ? Do but ask and command us : but we have never been able to draw a word from her.
We can not tell whether her silence proceeds from pride , sorrow , stupidity , or dumbness ; and this is all we can inform your majesty.
' The person_0 of person_2 was more astonished at hearing this than he was before : however , believing the slave might have some reason for sorrow , he endeavored to divert and amuse her , but all in vain.
For a whole year she never afforded him the pleasure of a single word.
At length , one day there were great rejoicings in the capital , because to the king and his silent slave-queen there was born a son and heir to the kingdom.
Once more the king endeavored to get a word from his wife.
` My queen , ' he said , ` I can not divine what your thoughts are ; but , for my own part , nothing would be wanting to complete my happiness and crown my joy but that you should speak to me one single word , for something within me tells me you are not dumb : and I beseech , I conjure you , to break through this long silence , and speak but one word to me ; and after that I care not how soon I die.
' At this discourse the fair slave , who , according to her usual custom , had hearkened to the king with downcast eyes , and had given him cause to believe not only that she was dumb , but that she had never laughed in her life , began to smile a little.
The person_0 of person_2 perceived it with a surprise that made him break forth into an exclamation of joy ; and no longer doubting but that she was going to speak , he waited for that happy moment with an eagerness and attention that can not easily be expressed.
At last the fair slave , breaking her long-kept silence , thus addressed herself to the king : ` Sire , ' said she , ` I have so many things to say to your majesty , that , having once broken silence , I know not where to begin.
However , in the first place , I think myself in duty bound to thank you for all the favors and honors you have been pleased to confer upon me , and to implore Heaven to bless and prosper you , to prevent the wicked designs of your enemies , and not to suffer you to die after hearing me speak , but to grant you a long life.
Had it never been my fortune to have borne a child , I was resolved -LRB- I beg your majesty to pardon the sincerity of my intention -RRB- never to have loved you , as well as to have kept an eternal silence ; but now I love you as I ought to do.
' The person_0 of person_2 , ravished to hear the fair slave speak , embraced her tenderly.
` Shining light of my eyes , ' said he , ` it is impossible for me to receive a greater joy than what you have now given me.
' The person_0 of person_2 , in the transport of his joy , said no more to the fair slave.
He left her , but in such a manner as made her perceive that his intention was speedily to return : and being willing that his joy should be made public , he sent in all haste for the grand vizier.
As soon as he came , he ordered him to distribute a thousand pieces of gold among the holy men of his religion , who had made vows of poverty ; as also among the hospitals and the poor , by way of returning thanks to Heaven : and his will was obeyed by the direction of that minister.
After the person_0 of person_2 had given this order , he returned to the fair slave again.
` Madam , ' said he , ` pardon me for leaving you so abruptly , but I hope you will indulge me with some conversation , since I am desirous to know several things of great consequence.
Tell me , my dearest soul , what were the powerful reasons that induced you to persist in that obstinate silence for a whole year together , though you saw me , heard me talk to you , and ate and drank with me every day.
' To satisfy the person_0 of person_2 's curiosity , ` Think , ' replied the queen , ` whether or no to be a slave , far from my own country , without any hopes of ever seeing it again , -- to have a heart torn with grief at being separated for ever from my mother , my brother , my friends , and my acquaintance , -- are not these sufficient reasons for my keeping a silence your majesty has thought so strange and unaccountable ? The love of our native country is as natural to us as that of our parents ; and the loss of liberty is insupportable to every one who is not wholly destitute of common sense , and knows how to set a value on it.
' ` Madam , ' replied the king , ` I am convinced of the truth of what you say ; but till this moment I was of opinion that a person beautiful like yourself , whom her evil destiny had condemned to be a slave , ought to think herself very happy in meeting with a king for her master.
' ` Sire , ' replied the fair slave , ` whatever the slave is , there is no king on earth who can tyrannise over her will.
But when this very slave is in nothing inferior to the king that bought her , your majesty shall then judge yourself of her misery , and her sorrow , and to what desperate attempts the anguish of despair may drive her.
' The person_0 of person_2 , in great astonishment , said ` Madam , can it be possible that you are of royal blood ? Explain the whole secret to me , I beseech you , and no longer increase my impatience.
Let me instantly know who are your parents , your brothers , your sisters , and your relations ; but , above all , what your name is.
' ` Sire , ' said the fair slave , ` my name is person_1 , Rose of the Sea ; and my father , who is now dead , was one of the most potent monarchs of the ocean.
When he died , he left his kingdom to a brother of mine , named person_4 , and to the queen , my mother , who is also a princess , the daughter of another powerful monarch of the sea.
We enjoyed a profound peace and tranquillity through the whole kingdom , till a neighbouring prince , envious of our happiness , invaded our dominions with a mighty army ; and penetrating as far as our capital , made himself master of it ; and we had but just time enough to save ourselves in an impenetrable and inaccessible place , with a few trusty officers who did not forsake us in our distress.
` In this retreat my brother contrived all manner of ways to drive the unjust invader from our dominions.
One day `` Sister ,"
said he , `` I may fail in the attempt I intend to make to recover my kingdom ; and I shall be less concerned for my own disgrace than for what may possibly happen to you.
To prevent it , and to secure you from all accident , I would fain see you married first : but in the miserable condition of our affairs at present , I see no probability of matching you to any of the princes of the sea ; and therefore I should be very glad if you would think of marrying some of the princes of the earth I am ready to contribute all that lies in my power towards it ; and I am certain there is not one of them , however powerful , but would be proud of sharing his crown with you"
` At this discourse of my brother 's , I fell into a violent passion.
`` Brother ,"
said I , `` you know that I am descended , as well as you , by both father 's and mother 's side , from the kings and queens of the sea , without any mixture of alliance with those of the earth ; therefore I do not intend to marry below myself , any more than they did.
The condition to which we are reduced shall never oblige me to alter my resolution ; and if you perish in the execution of your design , I am prepared to fall with you , rather than to follow the advice I so little expected from you"
` My brother , who was still earnest for the marriage , however improper for me , endeavored to make me believe that there were kings of the earth who were nowise inferior to those of the sea.
This put me into a more violent passion , which occasioned him to say several bitter words that stung me to the quick.
He left me as much dissatisfied with myself as he could possibly be with me ; and in this peevish mood I gave a spring from the bottom of the sea up to the island of the moon.
` Notwithstanding the violent displeasure that made me cast myself upon that island , I lived content in retirement.
But in spite of all my precautions , a person of distinction , attended by his servants , surprised me sleeping , and carried me to his own house , and wished me to marry him.
When he saw that fair means would not prevail upon me , he attempted to make use of force ; but I soon made him repent of his insolence.
So at last he resolved to sell me ; which he did to that very merchant who brought me hither and sold me to your majesty.
This man was a very prudent , courteous , humane person , and during the whole of the long journey , never gave me the least reason to complain.
` As for your majesty , ' continued person_3 , ` if you had not shown me all the respect you have hitherto paid , and given me such undeniable marks of your affection that I could no longer doubt of it , I hesitate not to tell you plainly that I should not have remained with you.
I would have thrown myself into the sea out of this very window , and I would have gone in search of my mother , my brother , and the rest of my relations ; and , therefore , I hope you will no longer look upon me as a slave , but as a princess worthy of your alliance.
' After this manner person_3 discovered herself to the person_0 of person_2 , and finished her story.
` My charming , my adorable queen , ' cried he , ` what wonders have I heard ! I must ask a thousand questions concerning those strange and unheard-of things which you have related to me.
I beseech you to tell me more about the kingdom and people of the sea , who are altogether unknown to me.
I have heard much talk , indeed , of the inhabitants of the sea , but I always looked upon it as nothing but a tale or fable ; but , by what you have told me , I am convinced there is nothing more true ; and I have a very good proof of it in your own person , who are one of them , and are pleased to condescend to be my wife ; which is an honor no other inhabitant on the earth can boast of besides myself.
There is one thing yet which puzzles me ; therefore I must beg the favor of you to explain it ; that is , I can not comprehend how it is possible for you to live or move in the water without being drowned.
There are very few amongst us who have the art of staying under water ; and they would surely perish , if , after a certain time , they did not come up again.
' ` Sire , ' replied person_3 , ` I shall with pleasure satisfy the person_0 of person_2.
We can walk at the bottom of the sea with as much ease as you can upon land ; and we can breathe in the water as you do in the air ; so that instead of suffocating us , as it does you , it absolutely contributes to the preservation of our lives.
What is yet more remarkable is , that it never wets our clothes ; so that when we have a mind to visit the earth , we have no occasion to dry them.
Our common language is the same as that of the writing engraved upon the seal of the great prophet Solomon , the son of David.
` I must not forget to tell you , further , that the water does not in the least hinder us from seeing in the sea ; for we can open our eyes without any inconvenience ; and as we have quick , piercing sight , we can discern any object as clearly in the deepest part of the sea as upon land.
We have also there a succession of day and night ; the moon affords us her light , and even the planets and the stars appear visible to us.
I have already spoken of our kingdoms ; but as the sea is much more spacious than the earth , so there are a greater number of them , and of greater extent.
They are divided into provinces ; and in each province there are several great cities , well peopled.
In short , there are an infinite number of nations , differing in manners and customs , just as upon the earth.
` The palaces of the kings and princes are very sumptuous and magnificent.
Some of them are of marble of various colors ; others of rock-crystal , with which the sea abounds , mother of pearl , coral , and of other materials more valuable ; gold , silver , and all sorts of precious stones are more plentiful there than on earth.
I say nothing of the pearls , since the largest that ever were seen upon earth would not be valued amongst us ; and none but the very lowest rank of citizens would wear them.
` As we can transport ourselves whither we please in the twinkling of an eye , we have no occasion for any carriages or riding-horses ; not but what the king has his stables , and his stud of sea-horses ; but they are seldom made use of , except upon public feasts or rejoicing days.
Some , after they have trained them , take delight in riding them , and show their skill and dexterity in races ; others put them to chariots of mother-of-pearl , adorned with an infinite number of shells of all sorts , of the brightest colors.
These chariots are open ; and in the middle there is a throne upon which the king sits , and shows himself to his subjects.
The horses are trained up to draw by themselves ; so that there is no occasion for a charioteer to guide them.
I pass over a thousand other curious particulars relating to these marine countries , which would be very entertaining to your majesty ; but you must permit me to defer it to a future leisure , to speak of something of much greater consequence.
I should like to send for my mother and my cousins , and at the same time to desire the king my brother 's company , to whom I have a great desire to be reconciled.
They will be very glad to see me again , after I have related my story to them , and when they understand I am wife to the mighty king of person_2.
I beseech your majesty to give me leave to send for them : I am sure they will be happy to pay their respects to you ; and I venture to say you will be extremely pleased to see them.
' ` Madam , ' replied the person_0 of person_2 , ` you are mistress ; do whatever you please ; I will endeavor to receive them with all the honors they deserve.
But I would fain know how you would acquaint them with what you desire , and when they will arrive , that I may give orders to make preparation for their reception , and go myself in person to meet them.
' ` Sire , ' replied the person_3 , ` there is no need of these ceremonies ; they will be here in a moment ; and if your Majesty will but look through the lattice , you shall see the manner of their arrival.
' person_3 then ordered one of her women to bring her a brazier with a little fire.
After that she bade her retire , and shut the door.
When she was alone , she took a piece of aloes out of a box , and put it into the brazier.
As soon as she saw the smoke rise , she repeated some words unknown to the person_0 of person_2 , who from a recess observe with great attention all that she did.
She had no sooner ended , than the sea began to be disturbed.
At length the sea opened at some distance ; and presently there rose out of it a tall , handsome young man , with moustaches of a sea-green color ; a little behind him , a lady , advanced in years , but of a majestic air , attended by five young ladies , nowise inferior in beauty to the person_3.
person_3 immediately went to one of the windows , and saw the king her brother , the queen her mother , and the rest of her relations , who at the same time perceived her also.
The company came forward , borne , as it were , upon the surface of the waves.
When they came to the edge , they nimbly , one after another , sprang up to the window , from whence person_3 had retired to make room for them.
person_0 , the queen her mother , and the rest of her relations , embraced her tenderly , with tears in their eyes , on their first entrance.
After person_3 had received them with all imaginable honor , and made them sit down upon a sofa , the queen her mother addressed herself to her : ` Daughter , ' said she , ` I am overjoyed to see you again after so long an absence ; and I am confident that your brother and your relations are no less so.
Your leaving us without acquainting anybody with it involved us in inexpressible concern ; and it is impossible to tell you how many tears we have shed upon that account.
We know of no other reason that could induce you to take such a surprising step , but what your brother told us of the conversation that passed between him and you.
The advice he gave you seemed to him at that time very advantageous for settling you handsomely in the world , and very suitable to the then posture of our affairs.
If you had not approved of his proposal , you ought not to have been so much alarmed ; and , give me leave to tell you , you took the thing in a quite different light from what you ought to have done.
But no more of this ; we and you ought now to bury it for ever in oblivion : give us an account of all that has happened to you since we saw you last , and of your present situation ; but especially let us know if you are satisfied.
' person_3 immediately threw herself at her mother 's feet ; and after rising and kissing her hand , ` I own , ' said she , ` I have been guilty of a very great fault , and I am indebted to your goodness for the pardon which you are pleased to grant me.
' She then related the whole of what had befallen her since she quitted the sea.
As soon as she had acquainted them with her having been sold to the person_0 of person_2 , in whose palace she was at present ; ` Sister , ' said the king her brother , ` you now have it in your power to free yourself.
Rise , and return with us into my kingdom , that I have reconquered from the proud usurper who had made himself master of it.
' The person_0 of person_2 , who heard these words from the recess where he was concealed , was in the utmost alarm.
` Ah ! ' said he to himself , ` I am ruined ; and if my queen , my person_1 , hearkens to this advice , and leaves me , I shall surely die.
' But person_3 soon put him out of his fears.
` Brother , ' said she , smiling , ` I can scarce forbear being angry with you for advising me to break the engagement I have made with the most puissant and most renowned monarch in the world.
I do not speak here of an engagement between a slave and her master ; it would be easy to return the ten thousand pieces of gold that I cost him ; but I speak now of a contract between a wife and a husband , and a wife who has not the least reason to complain.
He is a religious , wise , and temperate king.
I am his wife , and he has declared me person_3 of person_2 , to share with him in his councils.
Besides , I have a child , the little Prince Beder.
I hope then neither my mother , nor you , nor any of my cousins , will disapprove of the resolution or the alliance I have made , which will be an equal honor to the kings of the sea and the earth.
Excuse me for giving you the trouble of coming hither from the bottom of the deep , to communicate it to you , and for the pleasure of seeing you after so long a separation.
' ` Sister , ' replied person_0 , ` the proposal I made you of going back with us into my kingdom was only to let you see how much we all love you , and how much I in particular honor you , and that nothing in the world is so dear to me as your happiness.
' The queen confirmed what her son had just spoken , and addressing herself to person_3 , said , ` I am very glad to hear you are pleased ; and I have nothing else to add to what your brother has just said to you.
I should have been the first to have condemned you , if you had not expressed all the gratitude you owe to a monarch that loves you so passionately , and has done such great things for you.
' When the person_0 of person_2 , who was still in the recess , heard this he began to love her more than ever , and resolved to express his gratitude in every possible way.
Presently person_3 clapped her hands , and in came some of her slaves , whom she had ordered to bring in a meal : as soon as it was served up , she invited the queen her mother , the king her brother , and her cousins , to sit down and take part of it.
They began to reflect , that without asking leave , they had got into the palace of a mighty king , who had never seen nor heard of them , and that it would be a great piece of rudeness to eat at his table without him.
This reflection raised a blush in their faces ; in their emotion their eyes glowed like fire , and they breathed flames at their mouths and nostrils.
This unexpected sight put the person_0 of person_2 , who was totally ignorant of the cause of it , into a dreadful consternation.
person_3 suspecting this , and understanding the intention of her relations , rose from her seat , and told them she would be back in a moment.
She went directly to the recess , and recovered the person_0 of person_2 from his surprise.
` Sir , ' said she , ` give me leave to assure you of the sincere friendship that the queen my mother and the king my brother are pleased to honor you with : they earnestly desire to see you , and tell you so themselves : I intended to have some conversation with them by ordering a banquet for them , before I introduced them to your majesty , but they are very impatient to pay their respects to you : and therefore I desire your majesty would be pleased to walk in , and honor them with your presence.
' ` Madam , ' said the person_0 of person_2 , ` I should be very glad to salute persons that have the honor to be so nearly related to you , but I am afraid of the flames that they breathe at their mouths and nostrils.
' ` Sir , ' replied the queen , laughing , ` you need not in the least be afraid of those flames , which are nothing but a sign of their unwillingness to eat in your palace , without your honoring them with your presence , and eating with them.
' The person_0 of person_2 , encouraged by these words , rose up , and came out into the room with his person_3.
She presented him to the queen her mother , to the king her brother , and to her other relations , who instantly threw themselves at his feet , with their faces to the ground.
The person_0 of person_2 ran to them , and lifting them up , embraced them one after another.
After they were all seated , person_0 began : ` Sir , ' said he to the person_0 of person_2 , ` we are at a loss for words to express our joy to think that the queen my sister should have the happiness of falling under the protection of so powerful a monarch.
We can assure you she is not unworthy of the high rank you have been pleased to raise her to ; and we have always had so much love and tenderness for her , that we could never think of parting with her to any of the puissant princes of the sea , who often demanded her in marriage before she came of age.
Heaven has reserved her for you , Sir , and we have no better way of returning thanks to it for the favor it has done her , than by beseeching it to grant your majesty a long and happy life with her , and to crown you with prosperity and satisfaction.
' ` Certainly , ' replied the person_0 of person_2 , ` I can not sufficiently thank either the queen her mother , or you , Prince , or your whole family , for the generosity with which you have consented to receive me into an alliance so glorious to me as yours.
' So saying , he invited them to take part of the luncheon , and he and his queen sat down at the table with them.
After it was over , the person_0 of person_2 conversed with them till it was very late ; and when they thought it time to retire , he waited upon them himself to the several rooms he had ordered to be prepared for them.
Next day , as the person_0 of person_2 , person_3 , the queen her mother , person_0 her brother , and the princesses their relations , were discoursing together in her majesty 's room , the nurse came in with the young Prince Beder in her arms.
person_0 no sooner saw him , than he ran to embrace him ; and taking him in his arms , fell to kissing and caressing him with the greatest demonstration of tenderness.
He took several turns with him about the room , dancing and tossing him about , when all of a sudden , through a transport of joy , the window being open , he sprang out , and plunged with him into the sea.
The person_0 of person_2 , who expected no such sight , set up a hideous cry , verily believing that he should either see the dear prince his son no more , or else that he should see him drowned ; and he nearly died of grief and affliction.
` Sir , ' said person_3 -LRB- with a quiet and undisturbed countenance , the better to comfort him -RRB- , ` let your majesty fear nothing ; the young prince is my son as well as yours , and I do not love him less than you do.
You see I am not alarmed ; neither in truth ought I to be so.
He runs no risk , and you will soon see the king his uncle appear with him again , and bring him back safe and sound.
For he will have the same advantage his uncle and I have , of living equally in the sea and upon the land.
' The queen his mother and the princesses his relations confirmed the same thing ; yet all they said had no effect on the king 's fright , from which he could not recover till he saw Prince Beder appear again before him.
The sea at length became troubled , when immediately person_0 arose with the young prince in his arms , and holding him up in the air , he re-entered at the same window he went out at.
The person_0 of person_2 being overjoyed to see Prince Beder again , and astonished that he was as calm as before he lost sight of him , person_0 said , ` Sir , was not your majesty in a great fright , when you first saw me plunge into the sea with the prince my nephew ? ' ` Alas ! Prince , ' answered the person_0 of person_2 , ` I can not express my concern.
I thought him lost from that very moment , and you now restore life to me by bringing him again.
' ` I thought as much , ' replied person_0 , ` though you had not the least reason to apprehend any danger ; for , before I plunged into the sea with him I pronounced over him certain mysterious words , which were engraven on the seal of the great Solomon , the son of David.
We do the same to all those children that are born in the regions at the bottom of the sea , by virtue of which they receive the same privileges that we have over those people who inhabit the earth.
From what your majesty has observed , you may easily see what advantage your son Prince Beder has acquired by his birth , for as long as he lives , and as often as he pleases , he will be at liberty to plunge into the sea , and traverse the vast empires it contains in its bosom.
' Having so spoken , person_0 , who had restored Prince Beder to his nurse 's arms , opened a box he had fetched from his palace in the little time he had disappeared.
It was filled with three hundred diamonds , as large as pigeons ' eggs , a like number of rubies of extraordinary size , as many emerald wands , each half a foot long , and thirty strings or necklaces of pearl , consisting each of ten feet.
` Sir , ' said he to the person_0 of person_2 , presenting him with this box , ` when I was first summoned by the queen my sister , I knew not what part of the earth she was in , or that she had the honor to be married to so great a monarch.
This made us come empty handed.
As we can not express how much we have been obliged to your majesty , I beg you to accept this small token of gratitude , in acknowledgment of the many particular favors you have been pleased to show her.
' It is impossible to express how greatly the person_0 of person_2 was surprised at the sight of so much riches , enclosed in so little compass.
` What ! Prince , ' cried he , ` do you call so inestimable a present a small token of your gratitude ? I declare once more , you have never been in the least obliged to me , neither the queen your mother nor you.
Madam , ' continued he , turning to person_1 , ` the king your brother has put me into the greatest confusion ; and I would beg of him to permit me to refuse his present , were I not afraid of disobliging him ; do you therefore endeavor to obtain his leave that I may be excused accepting it.
' ` Sir , ' replied person_0 , ` I am not at all surprised that your majesty thinks this present so extraordinary.
I know you are not accustomed upon earth to see precious stones of this quality and quantity : but if you knew , as I do , the mines whence these jewels were taken , and that it is in my power to form a treasure greater than those of all the kings of the earth , you would wonder we should have the boldness to make you a present of so small a value.
I beseech you , therefore , not to regard it in that light , but on account of the sincere friendship which obliges us to offer it to you not to give us the mortification of refusing it.
' This obliged the person_0 of person_2 to accept the present , for which he returned many thanks both to person_0 and the queen his mother.
A few days after , person_0 gave the person_0 of person_2 to understand that the queen his mother , the princesses his relations and himself , could have no greater pleasure than to spend their whole lives at his court ; but that having been so long absent from their own kingdom , where their presence was absolutely necessary , they begged of him not to take it ill if they took leave of him and person_3.
The person_0 of person_2 assured them he was very sorry that it was not in his power to return their visit in their own dominions ; but he added , ` As I am verily persuaded you will not forget person_3 , but come and see her now and then , I hope I shall have the honor to see you again more than once.
' Many tears were shed on both sides upon their separation.
person_0 departed first ; but the queen his mother , and the princesses his relations , were fain to force themselves in a manner from the embraces of person_3 , who could not prevail upon herself to let them go.
This royal company were no sooner out of sight than the person_0 of person_2 said to person_3 , ` Madam , I should have looked with suspicion upon the person that had pretended to pass those off upon me for true wonders , of which I myself have been an eye-witness from the time I have been honored with your illustrious family at my court.
But I can not refuse to believe my own eyes ; and shall remember it as long as I live , and never cease to bless Heaven for sending you to me , instead of to any other prince.
'"
There was once a sultan of India who had three sons.
These , with the princess his niece , were the ornaments of his court.
The eldest of the princes was called person_4 , the second person_3 , the youngest person_2 , and the princess his niece , person_0.
The person_1 was the daughter of the younger brother of the sultan , to whom the sultan in his lifetime allowed a considerable revenue.
But that prince had not been married long before he died , and left the princess very young.
The sultan , out of brotherly love and friendship , took upon himself the care of his niece 's education , and brought her up in his palace with the three princes , where her singular beauty and personal accomplishments , joined to a sprightly disposition and irreproachable conduct , distinguished her among all the princesses of her time.
The sultan , her uncle , proposed to get her married , when she arrived at a proper age , to some neighbouring prince , and was thinking seriously about it , when he perceived that the three princes his sons had all fallen in love with her.
He was very much concerned , owing to the difficulty he foresaw whether the two younger would consent to yield to their elder brother.
He spoke to each of them apart ; and after having remonstrated on the impossibility of one princess being the wife of three persons , and the troubles they would create if they persisted , he did all he could to persuade them to abide by a declaration of the princess in favor of one of them ; or to suffer her to be married to a foreign prince.
But as he found them obstinate , he sent for them all together , and said to them , ` Children , since I have not been able to persuade you no longer to aspire to marry the princess your cousin ; and as I have no inclination to force her to marry any of you , I have thought of a plan which will please you all , and preserve union among you , if you will but follow my advice.
I think it would be best , if every one traveled separately into a different country , so that you might not meet each other : and as you know I delight in every thing that is rare and singular , I promise my niece in marriage to him that shall bring me the most extraordinary curiosity ; and for traveling expenses , I will give each of you a sum befitting your rank and the purchase of the curiosity you search.
' As the three princes were always submissive and obedient to the sultan 's will , and each flattered himself that fortune would favor him , they all consented.
The sultan gave them the money he promised ; and that very day they issued orders in preparation for their travels , and took leave of the sultan , that they might be ready to set out early the next morning.
They all went out at the same gate of the city , each dressed like a merchant , attended by a trusty officer dressed like a slave , all well mounted and equipped.
They went the first day 's journey together ; and slept at the first inn , where the road divided into three different tracks.
At night when they were at supper together , they agreed to travel for a year , and to make that inn their rendezvous ; that the first that came should wait for the rest ; that as they had all three taken leave together of the sultan , they should all return together.
The next morning by break of day , after they had embraced and wished each other good success , they mounted their horses , and each took a different road.
person_5 , the eldest brother , who had heard wonders of the extent , strength , riches , and splendor of the kingdom of Bisnagar , bent his course towards the Indian coast ; and , after three months traveling with different caravans , sometimes over deserts and barren mountains , and sometimes through populous and fertile countries , he arrived at Bisnagar , the capital of the kingdom of that name and the residence of its king.
He lodged at a khan appointed for foreign merchants ; and having learned that there were four principal quarters where merchants of all sorts kept their shops , in the midst of which stood the castle , or rather the king 's palace , as the center of the city , surrounded by three courts , and each gate two leagues distant from the other , he went to one of these quarters the next day.
person_5 could not see this quarter without admiration.
It was large , and divided into several streets , all vaulted and shaded from the sun , and yet very light.
The shops were all of the same size and proportion ; and all that dealt in the same sort of merchandise , as well as the craftsmen , lived in one street.
The multitude of shops stocked with the finest linens from several parts of India , some painted in the brightest colors , with men , landscapes , trees , and flowers ; silks and brocades from Persia , China , and other places ; porcelain from Japan and China , foot carpets of all sizes , -- all this surprised him so much that he knew not how to believe his own eyes ; but when he came to the shops of the goldsmiths and jewellers -LRB- for those two trades were exercised by the same merchants -RRB- , he was dazzled by the lustre of the pearls , diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and other precious stones exposed for sale.
But if he was amazed at seeing so many riches in one place , he was much more surprised when he came to judge of the wealth of the whole kingdom by considering that except the Brahmins and ministers of the idols , who profess a life retired from worldly vanity , there was not an Indian , man or woman , through the extent of that kingdom , who did not wear necklaces , bracelets , and ornaments about their legs and feet , made of pearls and other precious stones.
Another thing person_5 particularly admired was the great number of rose-sellers , who crowded the streets ; for the Indians are such lovers of that flower , that not one will stir without a nosegay in his hand , or a garland on his head ; and the merchants keep them in pots in their shops , so that the air of the whole quarter , however large , is perfectly perfumed.
After person_5 had run through the quarter , street by street , his thoughts fully occupied by the riches he had seen , he was very much tired , and a merchant civilly invited him to sit down in his shop.
He accepted the offer ; but had not been seated long before he saw a crier pass by with a piece of carpet on his arm , about six feet square , and cry it at thirty purses.
The prince called to the crier , and asked to see the carpet , which seemed to him to be valued at an exorbitant price , not only for its size , but the meanness of the stuff.
When he had examined it well , he told the crier that he could not comprehend how so small and poor a piece could be priced so high.
The crier , who took him for a merchant , replied , ` Sir , if this price seems so extravagant to you , your amazement will be greater when I tell you I have orders to raise it to forty purses , and not to part with it for less.
' ` Certainly , ' answered person_5 , ` it must have something very extraordinary about it , which I know nothing of.
' ` You have guessed right , sir , ' replied the crier , ` and will own as much when you come to know that whoever sits on this piece of carpet may be transported in an instant wherever he desires to go without being stopped by any obstacle.
' At this the person_5 of the Indies , considering that the principal motive of his journey was to carry some singular curiosity home to the sultan his father , thought that be could not meet with anything which could give him more satisfaction.
` If the carpet , ' said he to the crier , ` has the virtue you assign it , I shall not think forty purses too much but shall make you a present besides.
' ` Sir , ' replied the crier , ` I have told you the truth ; and it will be an easy matter to convince you of it , as soon as you have made the bargain for forty purses , by experiment.
But as I suppose you have not so much with you , and that I must go with you to the khan where you lodge , with the leave of the master of the shop we will go into his back shop , and I will spread the carpet ; and when we have both sat down , and you have formed the wish to be transported into your room at the khan , if we are not transported thither it shall be no bargain.
As to your present , as I am paid for my trouble by the seller , I shall receive it as a favor , and be very much obliged to you for it.
' The prince accepted the conditions , and concluded the bargain ; and having obtained the master 's leave , they went into his back shop ; they both sat down on the carpet , and as soon as the prince wished to be transported into his room at the khan , he found himself and the crier there , and as he wanted no more convincing proof of the virtue of the carpet , he counted to the crier forty purses of gold , and gave him twenty pieces for himself.
In this manner person_5 became the possessor of the carpet , and was overjoyed that on his arrival at Bisnagar he had found so rare a treasure , which he never doubted would gain him the person_1.
In short he looked upon it as an impossible thing for the princes , his younger brothers , to meet with anything to compare with it.
It was in his power , by sitting on this carpet , to be at the place of rendezvous that very day ; but as he was obliged to wait for his brothers , as they had agreed , and as he was curious to see the King of Bisnagar and his court , and to learn about the laws , customs , and religion of the kingdom , he chose to make a longer abode there.
It was a custom of the King of Bisnagar to give audience to all strange merchants once a week ; and person_5 , who remained incognito , saw him often ; and as he was handsome , clever , and extremely polite , he easily distinguished himself among the merchants , and was preferred before them all by the sultan , who asked him about the Sultan of the Indies , and the government , strength , and riches of his dominions.
The rest of his time the prince spent in seeing what was most remarkable in and about the city ; and among other things he visited a temple , all built of brass.
It was ten cubits square , and fifteen high ; and the greatest ornament to it was an idol of the height of a man , of massy gold : its eyes were two rubies , set so artificially , that it seemed to look at those who looked at it , on whichever side they turned.
Besides this , there was another not less curious , in a village in the midst of a plain of about ten acres , which was a delicious garden full of roses and the choicest flowers , surrounded with a small wall breast high , to keep the cattle out.
In the midst of this plain was raised a terrace , a man 's height , so nicely paved that the whole pavement seemed to be but one single stone.
A temple was erected in the middle of this terrace , with a dome about fifty cubits high , which might be seen for several leagues round.
It was thirty cubits long , and twenty broad , built of red marble , highly polished.
The inside of the dome was adorned with three rows of fine paintings , in good taste : and there was not a place in the whole temple but was embellished with paintings , bas-reliefs , and figures of idols from top to bottom.
Every night and morning there were ceremonies performed in this temple , which were always succeeded by sports , concerts , dancing , singing , and feasts.
The ministers of the temple and the inhabitants of the place had nothing to live on but the offerings of pilgrims , who came in crowds from the most distant parts of the kingdom to perform their vows.
person_5 was also spectator of a solemn feast , which was celebrated every year at the court of Bisnagar , at which all the governors of provinces , commanders of fortified places , all the governors and judges of towns , and the Brahmins most celebrated for their learning , were obliged to be present ; and some lived so far off that they were four months in coming.
This assembly , composed of innumerable multitudes of Indians , met in a plain of vast extent , as far as the eye could reach.
In the center of this plain was a square of great length and breadth , closed on one side by a large scaffolding of nine stories , supported by forty pillars , raised for the king and his court , and those strangers whom he admitted to audience once a week.
Inside , it was adorned and furnished magnificently ; and on the outside were painted fine landscapes , wherein all sorts of beasts , birds , and insects , even flies and gnats , were drawn as naturally as possible.
Other scaffolds of at least four or five stories , and painted almost all alike , formed the other three sides.
On each side of the square , at some little distance from each other , were ranged a thousand elephants , sumptuously harnessed , each having upon his back a square wooden castle , finely gilt , in which were musicians and actors.
The trunks , ears , and bodies of these elephants were painted with cinnabar and other colors , representing grotesque figures.
But what person_5 most of all admired was to see the largest of these elephants stand with his four feet on a post fixed into the earth , two feet high , playing and beating time with his trunk to the music.
Besides this , he admired another elephant as big , standing on a board , which was laid across a strong beam about ten feet high , with a great weight at the other end which balanced him , while he kept time with the music by the motions of his body and trunk.
person_5 might have made a longer stay in the kingdom and court of Bisnagar , where he would have seen other wonders , till the last day of the year , whereon he and his brothers had appointed to meet.
But he was so well satisfied with what he had seen , and his thoughts ran so much upon the person_1 , that he fancied he should be the more easy and happy the nearer he was to her.
After he had paid the master of the khan for his apartment , and told him the hour when he might come for the key , without telling him how he should go , he shut the door , put the key on the outside , and spreading the carpet , he and the officer he had brought with him sat down on it , and , as soon as he had wished , were transported to the inn at which he and his brothers were to meet , where he passed for a merchant till they came.
person_5 , the second brother , traveled into Persia with a caravan , and after four months ' traveling arrived at Schiraz , which was then the capital of the kingdom of Persia , and having on the way made friends with some merchants , passed for a jeweller , and lodged in the same khan with them.
The next morning , while the merchants were opening their bales of merchandise , person_5 took a walk into that quarter of the town where they sold precious stones , gold and silver work , brocades , silks , fine linens , and other choice and valuable merchandise , which was at Schiraz called the bezestein.
It was a spacious and well-built place , arched over , and supported by large pillars ; along the walls , within and without , were shops.
person_5 soon rambled through the bezestein , and with admiration judged of the riches of the place by the prodigious quantities of most precious merchandise there exposed to view.
But among all the criers who passed backwards and forwards with several sorts of things to sell , he was not a little surprised to see one who held in his hand an ivory tube about a foot in length and about an inch thick , and cried it at thirty purses.
At first he thought the crier mad , and to make sure , went to a shop , and said to the merchant , who stood at the door , ` Pray , sir , is not that man mad ? If he is not , I am very much deceived.
' ` Indeed , sir , ' answered the merchant , ` he was in his right senses yesterday , and I can assure you he is one of the ablest criers we have , and the most employed of any when anything valuable is to be sold ; and if he cries the ivory tube at thirty purses , it must be worth as much , or more , for some reason or other which does not appear.
He will come by presently , and we will call him ; in the meantime sit down on my sofa and rest yourself.
' person_5 accepted the merchant 's obliging offer , and presently the crier passed by.
The merchant called him by his name ; and pointing to the prince , said to him , ` Tell that gentleman , who asked me if you were in your right senses , what you mean by crying that ivory tube , which seems not to be worth much , at thirty purses : I should be very much amazed myself , if I did not know you were a sensible man.
' The crier , addressing himself to person_5 , said , ` Sir , you are not the only person that takes me for a madman on account of this tube ; you shall judge yourself whether I am or no , when I have told you its peculiarity.
First , sir , ' pursued the crier , presenting the ivory tube to the prince , ` observe that this tube is furnished with a glass at both ends ; by looking through one of them you see whatever object you wish to behold.
' ` I am , ' said the prince , ` ready to make you all proper reparation for the scandal I have thrown on you , if you will make the truth of what you say appear ' ; and as he had the ivory tube in his hand , he said , ` Show me at which of these ends I must look.
' The crier showed him , and he looked through , wishing at the same time to see the sultan , his father.
He immediately beheld him in perfect health , sitting on his throne , in the midst of his council.
Afterwards , as there was nothing in the world so dear to him , after the sultan , as the person_1 , he wished to see her , and saw her laughing , and in a pleasant humor , with her women about her.
person_5 needed no other proof to persuade him that this tube was the most valuable thing , not only in the city of Schiraz , but in all the world ; and he believed that , if he should neglect it , he would never meet again with such another rarity.
He said to the crier , ` I am very sorry that I should have entertained so bad an opinion of you , but hope to make you amends by buying the tube , so tell me the lowest price the seller has fixed upon it.
Come with me , and I will pay you the money.
' The crier assured him that his last orders were to take no less than forty purses ; and , if he disputed the truth of what he said , he would take him to his employer.
The prince believed him , took him to the khan where he lodged , counted out the money , and received the tube.
person_5 was overjoyed at his bargain ; and persuaded himself that , as his brothers would not be able to meet with anything so rare and marvellous , the person_1 would be his wife.
He thought now of visiting the court of Persia incognito , and seeing whatever was curious in and about Schiraz , till the caravan with which he came returned back to the Indies.
When the caravan was ready to set out , the prince joined them , and arrived without any accident or trouble at the place of rendezvous , where he found person_5 , and both waited for person_5.
person_5 took the road to Samarcand ; and the day after his arrival there went , as his brothers had done , into the bezestein.
He had not walked long before he heard a crier , who had an artificial apple in his hand , cry it at five-and-thirty purses.
He stopped the crier , and said to him , ` Let me see that apple , and tell me what virtue or extraordinary property it has , to be valued at so high a rate.
' ` Sir , ' said the crier , putting it into his hand , ` if you look at the outside of this apple , it is very ordinary ; but if you consider the great use and benefit it is to mankind , you will say it is invaluable.
He who possesses it is master of a great treasure.
It cures all sick persons of the most mortal diseases , fever , pleurisy , plague , or other malignant distempers ; and , if the patient is dying , it will immediately restore him to perfect health ; and this is done after the easiest manner in the world , merely by the patient smelling the apple.
' ` If one may believe you , ' replied person_5 , ` the virtues of this apple are wonderful , and it is indeed valuable : but what ground has a plain man like myself , who may wish to become the purchaser , to be persuaded that there is no deception or exaggeration in the high praise you bestow on it ? ' ` Sir , ' replied the crier , ` the thing is known and averred by the whole city of Samarcand ; but , without going any further , ask all these merchants you see here , and hear what they say ; several of them would not have been alive this day if they had not made use of this excellent remedy.
It is the result of the study and experience of a celebrated philosopher of this city , who applied himself all his life to the knowledge of plants and minerals , and at last performed such surprising cures in this city as will never be forgotten ; but he died suddenly himself , before he could apply his own sovereign remedy , and left his wife and a great many young children behind him in very indifferent circumstances ; to support her family , and provide for her children , she has resolved to sell it.
' While the crier was telling person_5 the virtues of the artificial apple , a great many persons came about them , and confirmed what he said ; and one among the rest said he had a friend dangerously ill , whose life was despaired of , which was a favourable opportunity to show person_5 the experiment.
Upon which person_5 told the crier he would give him forty purses if he cured the sick person by letting him smell at it.
The crier , who had orders to sell it at that price , said to person_5 , ` Come , sir , let us go and make the experiment , and the apple shall be yours ; it is an undoubted fact that it will always have the same effect as it already has had in recovering from death many sick persons whose life was despaired of.
' The experiment succeeded , and the prince , after he had counted out to the crier forty purses , and the other had delivered the apple to him , waited with the greatest impatience for the first caravan that should return to the Indies.
In the meantime he saw all that was curious in and about Samarcand , especially the valley of Sogda , so called from the river which waters it , and is reckoned by the Arabians to be one of the four paradises of this world , for the beauty of its fields and gardens and fine palaces , and for its fertility in fruit of all sorts , and all the other pleasures enjoyed there in the fine season.
At last person_5 joined the first caravan that returned to the Indies , and arrived in perfect health at the inn where the person_5s person_4 and person_3 were waiting for him.
person_5 , who was there some time before person_5 , asked person_5 , who got there first , how long he had been there ; he told him three months : to which he replied , ` Then certainly you have not been very far.
' ` I will tell you nothing now , ' said person_5 , ` but only assure you I was more than three months traveling to the place I went to.
' ` But then , ' replied person_5 , ` you made a short stay there.
' ` Indeed , brother , ' said person_5 , ` you are mistaken : I resided at one place over four or five months , and might have stayed longer.
' ` Unless you flew back , ' replied person_5 again , ` I can not comprehend how you can have been three months here , as you would make me believe.
' ` I tell you the truth , ' added person_5 , ` and it is a riddle which I shall not explain till our brother person_2 comes ; then I will let you know what curiosity I have brought home from my travels.
I know not what you have got , but believe it to be some trifle , because I do not see that your baggage is increased.
' ` And pray what have you brought ? ' replied person_5 , ` for I can see nothing but an ordinary piece of carpet , with which you cover your sofa , and as you seem to make what you have brought a secret , you can not take it amiss that I do the same.
' ` I consider the rarity which I have purchased , ' replied person_5 , ` to excel all others whatever , and should not have any objection to show it you , and make you agree that it is so , and at the same time tell you how I came by it , without being in the least apprehensive that what you have got is better.
But we ought to wait till our brother person_2 arrives , that we may all communicate our good fortune to each other.
' person_5 would not enter into a dispute with person_5 , but was persuaded that , if his perspective glass were not preferable , it was impossible it should be inferior , and therefore agreed to wait till person_5 arrived , to produce his purchase.
When person_5 came , they embraced and complimented each other on the happiness of meeting together at the place they set out from.
Then person_5 , as the elder brother , said , ` Brothers , we shall have time enough hereafter to entertain ourselves with the particulars of our travels : let us come to that which is of the greatest importance for us to know ; let us not conceal from each other the curiosities we have brought home , but show them , that we may do ourselves justice beforehand and see to which of us the sultan our father may give the preference.
` To set the example , ' continued person_5 , ` I will tell you that the rarity which I have brought from my travels to the kingdom of Bisnagar , is the carpet on which I sit , which looks but ordinary and makes no show ; but , when I have declared its virtues to you , you will be struck with admiration , and will confess you never heard of anything like it.
Whoever sits on it as we do , and desires to be transported to any place , be it ever so far off , is immediately carried thither.
I made the experiment myself before I paid down the forty purses , and when I had fully satisfied my curiosity at the court of Bisnagar , and had a mind to return , I made use of no other means than this wonderful carpet for myself and servant , who can tell you how long we were coming hither.
I will show you both the experiment whenever you please.
I expect you to tell me whether what you have brought is to be compared to this carpet.
' Here person_5 ended , and person_5 said , ` I must own , brother , that your carpet is one of the most surprising things imaginable , if it has , as I do not doubt in the least , that property you speak of.
But you must allow that there may be other things , I will not say more , but at least as wonderful , in another way ; and to convince you there are , here is an ivory tube , which appears to the eye no more a rarity than your carpet.
It cost me as much , and I am as well satisfied with my purchase as you can be with yours ; and you will be so just as to own that I have not been cheated , when you know by experience that by looking at one end you see whatever you wish to behold.
Take it , ' added person_5 , presenting the tube to him , ` make trial of it yourself.
' person_5 took the ivory tube from person_5 , and clapped that end to his eye which person_5 showed him , to see the person_1 , and to know how she was , when person_5 and person_5 , who kept their eyes fixed upon him , were extremely surprised to see his countenance change suddenly with extraordinary pain and grief.
person_5 would not give them time to ask what was the matter , but cried out , ` Alas ! princes , to what purpose have we undertaken long and fatiguing journeys ? In a few moments our lovely princess will breathe her last.
I saw her in her bed , surrounded by her women and attendants , who were all in tears.
Take the tube , behold for yourselves the miserable state she is in.
' person_5 took the tube out of person_5 's hand and after he had looked , presented it to person_5.
When person_5 saw that the person_1 's end was so near , he addressed himself to his two brothers , and said , ` person_5s , the person_1 , the object of all our vows , is indeed at death 's door ; but provided we make haste and lose no time , we may preserve her life.
' Then he took out the artificial apple , and showing it to the princes his brothers , said to them , ` This apple which you see here cost as much as either the carpet or tube.
The opportunity now presents itself to show you its wonderful virtue.
Not to keep you longer in suspense , if a sick person smells it , though in the last agonies , it restores him to perfect health immediately.
I have made the experiment , and can show you its wonderful effect on the person_1 , if we make all haste to assist her.
' ` If that is all , ' replied person_5 , ` we can not make more haste than by transporting ourselves instantly into her room by the means of my carpet.
Come , lose no time ; sit down on it by me ; it is large enough to hold us all three : but first let us give orders to our servants to set out immediately , and join us at the palace.
' As soon as the order was given , person_5 and person_5 went and sat down by person_5 , and all three framed the same wish , and were transported into the person_1 's chamber.
The presence of the three princes , who were so little expected , frightened the princess 's women and attendants , who could not comprehend by what enchantment three men should be among them ; for they did not know them at first , and the attendants were ready to fall upon them , as people who had got into a part of the palace where they were not allowed to come ; but they presently recollected and found their mistake.
person_5 no sooner saw himself in person_0 's room , and perceived the princess dying , than he rose off the tapestry , as did also the other two princes , and went to the bed-side , and put the apple under her nose.
Some moments after , the princess opened her eyes , and turned her head from one side to another , looking at the persons who stood about her ; she then rose up in the bed , and asked to be dressed , just as if she had awaked out of a sound sleep.
Her women informed her , in a manner that showed their joy , that she was obliged to the three princes her cousins , and particularly to person_5 , for the sudden recovery of her health.
She immediately expressed her joy to see them , and thanked them all together , and afterwards person_5 in particular , and they then retired.
While the princess was dressing , the princes went to throw themselves at the sultan their father 's feet , and pay their respects to him.
The sultan received and embraced them with the greatest joy , both for their return and for the wonderful recovery of the princess his niece , whom he loved as if she had been his own daughter , and who had been given over by the physicians.
After the usual compliments , the princes presented each the curiosity which he had brought : person_5 his carpet , which he had taken care not to leave behind him in the princess 's chamber ; person_5 his ivory tube , and person_5 the artificial apple ; and after each had commended his present , when they put it into the sultan 's hands , they begged him to pronounce their fate , and declare to which of them he would give the person_1 for a wife , according to his promise.
The Sultan of the Indies having kindly heard all that the princes had to say , without interrupting them , and being well informed of what had happened in relation to the person_1 's cure , remained some time silent , as if he were thinking what answer he should make.
At last he broke silence , and said to them in terms full of wisdom , ` I would declare for one of you , my children , with a great deal of pleasure , if I could do so with justice ; but consider whether I can.
It is true , person_5 , the princess my niece is obliged to your artificial apple for her cure , but let me ask you , whether you could have been so serviceable to her if you had not known by person_5 's tube the danger she was in , and if person_5 's carpet had not brought you to her so soon ? ` Your tube , person_5 , informed you and your brothers that you were likely to lose the princess your cousin , and so far she is greatly obliged to you.
You must also grant that that knowledge would have been of no service without the artificial apple and the carpet.
` And for you , person_5 , consider that it would have been of little use if you had not been acquainted with the princess 's illness by person_5 's tube , and person_5 had not applied his artificial apple.
Therefore , as neither the carpet , the ivory tube , nor the artificial apple has the least preference one over the other , but , on the contrary , there is a perfect equality , I can not grant the princess to any one of you , and the only fruit you have reaped from your travels is the glory of having equally contributed to restore her to health.
` If this be true , ' added the sultan , ` you see that I must have recourse to other means to determine with certainty in the choice I ought to make among you , and as there is time enough between this and night , I will do it to-day.
Go , and get each of you a bow and arrow , and repair to the great plain outside the city , where the horses are exercised.
I will soon come to you , and I declare I will give the person_1 to him that shoots the farthest.
` I do not , however , forget to thank you all in general , and each in particular , for the presents you brought me.
I have a great many rarities in my museum already , but nothing that comes up to the carpet , the ivory tube , and the artificial apple , which shall have the first place among them , and shall be preserved carefully , not only for show , but to make an advantageous use of them upon all occasions.
' The three princes had nothing to say against the decision of the sultan.
When they were out of his presence , they each provided themselves with a bow and arrow , which they delivered to one of their officers , and went to the plain appointed , followed by a great concourse of people.
The sultan did not make them wait long ; and as soon as he arrived , person_5 , as the eldest , took his bow and arrow , and shot first.
person_5 shot next , and much beyond him ; and person_5 last of all ; but it so happened , that nobody could see where his arrow fell ; and , notwithstanding all the search of himself and everybody else , it was not to be found far or near.
And though it was believed that he shot the farthest , and that he therefore deserved the person_1 , it was necessary that his arrow should be found , to make the matter evident and certain ; so , notwithstanding his remonstrances , the sultan determined in favor of person_5 , and gave orders for preparations to be made for the wedding , which was celebrated a few days afterwards with great magnificence"
There were once upon a time two brothers , one rich and the other poor.
The rich one was a goldsmith and evil-hearted.
The poor one supported himself by making brooms , and was good and honorable.
The poor one had two children , who were twin brothers and as like each other as two drops of water.
The two boys went backwards and forwards to the rich house , and often got some of the scraps to eat.
It happened once when the poor man was going into the forest to fetch brush-wood , that he saw a bird which was quite golden and more beautiful than any he had ever chanced to meet with.
He picked up a small stone , threw it at him , and was lucky enough to hit him , but one golden feather only fell down , and the bird flew away.
The man took the feather and carried it to his brother , who looked at it and said , `` It is pure gold !"
and gave him a great deal of money for it.
Next day the man climbed into a birch-tree , and was about to cut off a couple of branches when the same bird flew out , and when the man searched he found a nest , and an egg lay inside it , which was of gold.
He took the egg home with him , and carried it to his brother , who again said , `` It is pure gold ,"
and gave him what it was worth.
At last the goldsmith said , `` I should indeed like to have the bird itself"
The poor man went into the forest for the third time , and again saw the golden bird sitting on the tree , so he took a stone and brought it down and carried it to his brother , who gave him a great heap of gold for it.
`` Now I can get on ,"
thought he , and went contentedly home.
The goldsmith was crafty and cunning , and knew very well what kind of a bird it was.
He called his wife and said , `` Roast me the gold bird , and take care that none of it is lost.
I have a fancy to eat it all myself"
The bird , however , was no common one , but of so wondrous a kind that whosoever ate its heart and liver found every morning a piece of gold beneath his pillow.
The woman made the bird ready , put it on the spit , and let it roast.
Now it happened that while it was at the fire , and the woman was forced to go out of the kitchen on account of some other work , the two children of the poor broom-maker ran in , stood by the spit and turned it round once or twice.
And as at that very moment two little bits of the bird fell down into the dripping-tin , one of the boys said , `` We will eat these two little bits ; I am so hungry , and no one will ever miss them"
Then the two ate the pieces , but the woman came into the kitchen and saw that they were eating something and said , `` What have ye been eating ?"
`` Two little morsels which fell out of the bird ,"
answered they.
`` That must have been the heart and the liver ,"
said the woman , quite frightened , and in order that her husband might not miss them and be angry , she quickly killed a young cock , took out his heart and liver , and put them beside the golden bird.
When it was ready , she carried it to the goldsmith , who consumed it all alone , and left none of it.
Next morning , however , when he felt beneath his pillow , and expected to bring out the piece of gold , no more gold pieces were there than there had always been.
The two children did not know what a piece of good-fortune had fallen to their lot.
Next morning when they arose , something fell rattling to the ground , and when they picked it up there were two gold pieces ! They took them to their father , who was astonished and said , `` How can that have happened ?"
When next morning they again found two , and so on daily , he went to his brother and told him the strange story.
The goldsmith at once knew how it had come to pass , and that the children had eaten the heart and liver of the golden bird , and in order to revenge himself , and because he was envious and hard-hearted , he said to the father , `` Thy children are in league with the Evil One , do not take the gold , and do not suffer them to stay any longer in thy house , for he has them in his power , and may ruin thee likewise"
The father feared the Evil One , and painful as it was to him , he nevertheless led the twins forth into the forest , and with a sad heart left them there.
And now the two children ran about the forest , and sought the way home again , but could not find it , and only lost themselves more and more.
At length they met with a huntsman , who asked , `` To whom do you children belong ?"
`` We are the poor broom-maker 's boys ,"
they replied , and they told him that their father would not keep them any longer in the house because a piece of gold lay every morning under their pillows.
`` Come ,"
said the huntsman , `` that is nothing so very bad , if at the same time you keep honest , and are not idle"
As the good man liked the children , and had none of his own , he took them home with him and said , `` I will be your father , and bring you up till you are big"
They learned huntsmanship from him , and the piece of gold which each of them found when he awoke , was kept for them by him in case they should need it in the future.
When they were grown up , their foster-father one day took them into the forest with him , and said , `` To-day shall you make your trial shot , so that I may release you from your apprenticeship , and make you huntsmen"
They went with him to lie in wait and stayed there a long time , but no game appeared.
The huntsman , however , looked above him and saw a covey of wild geese flying in the form of a triangle , and said to one of them , `` Shoot me down one from each corner"
He did it , and thus accomplished his trial shot.
Soon after another covey came flying by in the form of the figure two , and the huntsman bade the other also bring down one from each corner , and his trial shot was likewise successful.
`` Now ,"
said the foster-father , `` I pronounce you out of your apprenticeship ; you are skilled huntsmen"
Thereupon the two brothers went forth together into the forest , and took counsel with each other and planned something.
And in the evening when they had sat down to supper , they said to their foster-father , `` We will not touch food , or take one mouthful , until you have granted us a request"
Said he , `` What , then , is your request ?"
They replied , `` We have now finished learning , and we must prove ourselves in the world , so allow us to go away and travel"
Then spake the old man joyfully , `` You talk like brave huntsmen , that which you desire has been my wish ; go forth , all will go well with you"
Thereupon they ate and drank joyously together.
When the appointed day came , their foster-father presented each of them with a good gun and a dog , and let each of them take as many of his saved-up gold pieces as he chose.
Then he accompanied them a part of the way , and when taking leave , he gave them a bright knife , and said , `` If ever you separate , stick this knife into a tree at the place where you part , and when one of you goes back , he will will be able to see how his absent brother is faring , for the side of the knife which is turned in the direction by which he went , will rust if he dies , but will remain bright as long as he is alive"
The two brothers went still farther onwards , and came to a forest which was so large that it was impossible for them to get out of it in one day.
So they passed the night in it , and ate what they had put in their hunting-pouches , but they walked all the second day likewise , and still did not get out.
As they had nothing to eat , one of them said , `` We must shoot something for ourselves or we shall suffer from hunger ,"
and loaded his gun , and looked about him.
And when an old hare came running up towards them , he laid his gun on his shoulder , but the hare cried , `` Dear huntsman , do but let me live , Two little ones to thee I 'll give ,"
and sprang instantly into the thicket , and brought two young ones.
But the little creatures played so merrily , and were so pretty , that the huntsmen could not find it in their hearts to kill them.
They therefore kept them with them , and the little hares followed on foot.
Soon after this , a fox crept past ; they were just going to shoot it , but the fox cried , `` Dear hunstman , do but let me live , Two little ones I 'll also give"
He , too , brought two little foxes , and the huntsmen did not like to kill them either , but gave them to the hares for company , and they followed behind.
It was not long before a wolf strode out of the thicket ; the huntsmen made ready to shoot him , but the wolf cried , `` Dear huntsman , do but let me live , Two little ones I 'll likewise give"
The huntsmen put the two wolves beside the other animals , and they followed behind them.
Then a bear came who wanted to trot about a little longer , and cried : `` Dear huntsman , do but let me live , Two little ones I , too , will give"
The two young bears were added to the others , and there were already eight of them.
At length who came ? A lion came , and tossed his mane.
But the huntsmen did not let themselves be frightened and aimed at him likewise , but the lion also said , `` Dear huntsman , do but let me live , Two little ones I , too , will give"
And he brought his little ones to them , and now the huntsmen had two lions , two bears , two wolves , two foxes , and two hares , who followed them and served them.
In thu meantime their hunger was not appeased by this , and they said to the foxes , `` Hark ye , cunning fellows , provide us with something to eat.
You are crafty and deep"
They replied , `` Not far from here lies a village , from which we have already brought many a fowl ; we will show you the way there"
So they went into the village , bought themselves something to eat , had some food given to their beasts , and then traveled onwards.
The foxes , however , knew their way very well about the district and where the poultry-yards were , and were able to guide the huntsmen.
Now they traveled about for a while , but could find no situations where they could remain together , so they said , `` There is nothing else for it , we must part"
They divided the animals , so that each of them had a lion , a bear , a wolf , a fox , and a hare , then they took leave of each other , promised to love each other like brothers till their death , and stuck the knife which their foster-father had given them , into a tree , after which one went east , and the other went west.
The younger , however , arrived with his beasts in a town which was all hung with black crape.
He went into an inn , and asked the host if he could accommodate his animals.
The innkeeper gave him a stable , where there was a hole in the wall , and the hare crept out and fetched himself the head of a cabbage , and the fox fetched himself a hen , and when he had devoured that got the cock as well , but the wolf , the bear , and the lion could not get out because they were too big.
Then the innkeeper let them be taken to a place where a cow was just then lying on the grass , that they might eat till they were satisfied.
And when the huntsman had taken care of his animals , he asked the innkeeper why the town was thus hung with black crape ? Said the host , `` Because our person_0 's only daughter is to die to-morrow"
The huntsman inquired if she was `` sick unto death ?"
`` No ,"
answered the host , `` she is vigorous and healthy , nevertheless she must die !"
`` How is that ?"
asked the huntsman.
`` There is a high hill without the town , whereon dwells a dragon who every year must have a pure virgin , or he lays the whole country waste , and now all the maidens have already been given to him , and there is no longer anyone left but the person_0 's daughter , yet there is no mercy for her ; she must be given up to him , and that is to be done to-morrow"
Said the huntsman , `` Why is the dragon not killed ?"
`` Ah ,"
replied the host , `` so many knights have tried it , but it has cost all of them their lives.
The person_0 has promised that he who conquers the dragon shall have his daughter to wife , and shall likewise govern the kingdom after his own death"
The huntsman said nothing more to this , but next morning took his animals , and with them ascended the dragon 's hill.
A little church stood at the top of it , and on the altar three full cups were standing , with the inscription , `` Whosoever empties the cups will become the strongest man on earth , and will be able to wield the sword which is buried before the threshold of the door"
The huntsman did not drink , but went out and sought for the sword in the ground , but was unable to move it from its place.
Then he went in and emptied the cups , and now he was strong enough to take up the sword , and his hand could quite easily wield it.
When the hour came when the maiden was to be delivered over to the dragon , the person_0 , the marshal , and courtiers accompanied her.
From afar she saw the huntsman on the dragon 's hill , and thought it was the dragon standing there waiting for her , and did not want to go up to him , but at last , because otherwise the whole town would have been destroyed , she was forced to go the miserable journey.
The person_0 and courtiers returned home full of grief ; the person_0 's marshal , however , was to stand still , and see all from a distance.
When the person_0 's daughter got to the top of the hill , it was not the dragon which stood there , but the young huntsman , who comforted her , and said he would save her , led her into the church , and locked her in.
It was not long before the seven-headed dragon came thither with loud roaring.
When he perceived the huntsman , he was astonished and said , `` What business hast thou here on the hill ?"
The huntsman answered , `` I want to fight with thee"
Said the dragon , `` Many knights have left their lives here , I shall soon have made an end of thee too ,"
and he breathed fire out of seven jaws.
The fire was to have lighted the dry grass , and the huntsman was to have been suffocated in the heat and smoke , but the animals came running up and trampled out the fire.
Then the dragon rushed upon the huntsman , but he swung his sword until it sang through the air , and struck off three of his heads.
Then the dragon grew right furious , and rose up in the air , and spat out flames of fire over the huntsman , and was about to plunge down on him , but the huntsman once more drew out his sword , and again cut off three of his heads.
The monster became faint and sank down , nevertheless it was just able to rush upon the huntsman , but he with his last strength smote its tail off , and as he could fight no longer , called up his animals who tore it in pieces.
When the struggle was ended , the huntsman unlocked the church , and found the person_0 's daughter lying on the floor , as she had lost her senses with anguish and terror during the contest.
He carried her out , and when she came to herself once more , and opened her eyes , he showed her the dragon all cut to pieces , and told her that she was now delivered.
She rejoiced and said , `` Now thou wilt be my dearest husband , for my father has promised me to him who kills the dragon"
Thereupon she took off her necklace of coral , and divided it amongst the animals in order to reward them , and the lion received the golden clasp.
Her pocket-handkerchief , however , on which was her name , she gave to the huntsman , who went and cut the tongues out of the dragon 's seven heads , wrapped them in the handkerchief , and preserved them carefully.
That done , as he was so faint and weary with the fire and the battle , he said to the maiden , `` We are both faint and weary , we will sleep awhile"
Then she said , `` yes ,"
and they lay down on the ground , and the huntsman said to the lion , `` Thou shalt keep watch , that no one surprises us in our sleep ,"
and both fell asleep.
The lion lay down beside them to watch , but he also was so weary with the fight , that he called to the bear and said , `` Lie down near me , I must sleep a little : if anything comes , waken me"
Then the bear lay down beside him , but he also was tired , and called the wolf and said , `` Lie down by me , I must sleep a little , but if anything comes , waken me"
Then the wolf lay down by him , but he was tired likewise , and called the fox and said , `` Lie down by me , I must sleep a little ; if anything comes , waken me"
Then the fox lay down beside him , but he too was weary , and called the hare and said , `` Lie down near me , I must sleep a little , and if anything should come , waken me"
Then the hare sat down by him , but the poor hare was tired too , and had no one whom he could call there to keep watch , and fell asleep.
And now the person_0 's daughter , the huntsman , the lion , the bear , the wolf , the fox , and the hare , were all sleeping a sound sleep.
The marshal , however , who was to look on from a distance , took courage when he did not see the dragon flying away with the maiden , and finding that all the hill had become quiet , ascended it.
There lay the dragon hacked and hewn to pieces on the ground , and not far from it were the person_0 's daughter and a huntsman with his animals , and all of them were sunk in a sound sleep.
And as he was wicked and godless he took his sword , cut off the huntsman 's head , and seized the maiden in his arms , and carried her down the hill.
Then she awoke and was terrified , but the marshal said , `` Thou art in my hands , thou shalt say that it was I who killed the dragon"
`` I can not do that ,"
she replied , `` for it was a huntsman with his animals who did it"
Then he drew his sword , and threatened to kill her if she did not obey him , and so compelled her that she promised it.
Then he took her to the person_0 , who did not know how to contain himself for joy when he once more looked on his dear child in life , whom he had believed to have been torn to pieces by the monster.
The marshal said to him , `` I have killed the dragon , and delivered the maiden and the whole kingdom as well , therefore I demand her as my wife , as was promised"
The person_0 said to the maiden , `` Is what he says true ?"
`` Ah , yes ,"
she answered , `` it must indeed be true , but I will not consent to have the wedding celebrated until after a year and a day ,"
for she thought in that time she should hear something of her dear huntsman.
The animals , however , were still lying sleeping beside their dead master on the dragon 's hill , and there came a great humble-bee and lighted on the hare 's nose , but the hare wiped it off with his paw , and went on sleeping.
The humble-bee came a second time , but the hare again rubbed it off and slept on.
Then it came for the third time , and stung his nose so that he awoke.
As soon as the hare was awake , he roused the fox , and the fox , the wolf , and the wolf the bear , and the bear the lion.
And when the lion awoke and saw that the maiden was gone , and his master was dead , he began to roar frightfully and cried , `` Who has done that ? Bear , why didst thou not waken me ?"
The bear asked the wolf , `` Why didst thou not waken me ?"
and the wolf the fox , `` Why didst thou not waken me ?"
and the fox the hare , `` Why didst thou not waken me ?"
The poor hare alone did not know what answer to make , and the blame rested with him.
Then they were just going to fall upon him , but he entreated them and said , `` Kill me not , I will bring our master to life again.
I know a mountain on which a root grows which , when placed in the mouth of any one , cures him of all illness and every wound.
But the mountain lies two hundred hours journey from here"
The lion said , `` In four-and-twenty hours must thou have run thither and have come back , and have brought the root with thee"
Then the hare sprang away , and in four-and-twenty hours he was back , and brought the root with him.
The lion put the huntsman 's head on again , and the hare placed the root in his mouth , and immediately everything united together again , and his heart beat , and life came back.
Then the huntsman awoke , and was alarmed when he did not see the maiden , and thought , `` She must have gone away whilst I was sleeping , in order to get rid of me"
The lion in his great haste had put his master 's head on the wrong way round , but the huntsman did not observe it because of his melancholy thoughts about the person_0 's daughter.
But at noon , when he was going to eat something , he saw that his head was turned backwards and could not understand it , and asked the animals what had happened to him in his sleep.
Then the lion told him that they , too , had all fallen asleep from weariness , and on awaking , had found him dead with his head cut off , that the hare had brought the life-giving root , and that he , in his haste , had laid hold of the head the wrong way , but that he would repair his mistake.
Then he tore the huntsman 's head off again , turned it round , and the hare healed it with the root.
The huntsman , however , was sad at heart , and traveled about the world , and made his animals dance before people.
It came to pass that precisely at the end of one year he came back to the same town where he had delivered the person_0 's daughter from the dragon , and this time the town was gaily hung with red cloth.
Then he said to the host , `` What does this mean ? Last year the town was all hung with black crape , what means the red cloth to-day ?"
The host answered , `` Last year our person_0 's daughter was to have been delivered over to the dragon , but the marshal fought with it and killed it , and so to-morrow their wedding is to be solemnized , and that is why the town was then hung with black crape for mourning , and is to-day covered with red cloth for joy ?"
Next day when the wedding was to take place , the huntsman said at mid-day to the inn-keeper , `` Do you believe , sir host , that I while with you here to-day shall eat bread from the person_0 's own table ?"
`` Nay ,"
said the host , `` I would bet a hundred pieces of gold that that will not come true"
The huntsman accepted the wager , and set against it a purse with just the same number of gold pieces.
Then he called the hare and said , `` Go , my dear runner , and fetch me some of the bread which the person_0 is eating"
Now the little hare was the lowest of the animals , and could not transfer this order to any the others , but had to get on his legs himself.
`` Alas !"
thought he , `` if I bound through the streets thus alone , the butchers ' dogs will all be after me"
It happened as he expected , and the dogs came after him and wanted to make holes in his good skin.
But he sprang away , have you have never seen one running ? and sheltered himself in a sentry-box without the soldier being aware of it.
Then the dogs came and wanted to have him out , but the soldier did not understand a jest , and struck them with the butt-end of his gun , till they ran away yelling and howling.
As soon as the hare saw that the way was clear , he ran into the palace and straight to the person_0 's daughter , sat down under her chair , and scratched at her foot.
Then she said , `` Wilt thou get away ?"
and thought it was her dog.
The hare scratched her foot for the second time , and she again said , `` Wilt thou get away ?"
and thought it was her dog.
But the hare did not let itself be turned from its purpose , and scratched her for the third time.
Then she peeped down , and knew the hare by its collar.
She took him on her lap , carried him into her chamber , and said , `` Dear Hare , what dost thou want ?"
He answered , `` My master , who killed the dragon , is here , and has sent me to ask for a loaf of bread like that which the person_0 eats"
Then she was full of joy and had the baker summoned , and ordered him to bring a loaf such as was eaten by the person_0.
The little hare said , `` But the baker must likewise carry it thither for me , that the butchers ' dogs may do no harm to me"
The baker carried if for him as far as the door of the inn , and then the hare got on his hind legs , took the loaf in his front paws , and carried it to his master.
Then said the huntsman , `` Behold , sir host , the hundred pieces of gold are mine"
The host was astonished , but the huntsman went on to say , `` Yes , sir host , I have the bread , but now I will likewise have some of the person_0 's roast meat"
The host said , `` I should indeed like to see that ,"
but he would make no more wagers.
The huntsman called the fox and said , `` My little fox , go and fetch me some roast meat , such as the person_0 eats"
The red fox knew the bye-ways better , and went by holes and corners without any dog seeing him , seated himself under the chair of the person_0 's daughter , and scratched her foot.
Then she looked down and recognized the fox by its collar , took him into her chamber with her and said , `` Dear fox , what dost thou want ?"
He answered , `` My master , who killed the dragon , is here , and has sent me.
I am to ask for some roast meat such as the person_0 is eating"
Then she made the cook come , who was obliged to prepare a roast joint , the same as was eaten by the person_0 , and to carry it for the fox as far as the door.
Then the fox took the dish , waved away with his tail the flies which had settled on the meat , and then carried it to his master.
`` Behold , sir host ,"
said the huntsman , `` bread and meat are here but now I will also have proper vegetables with it , such as are eaten by the person_0"
Then he called the wolf , and said , `` Dear Wolf , go thither and fetch me vegetables such as the person_0 eats"
Then the wolf went straight to the palace , as he feared no one , and when he got to the person_0 's daughter 's chamber , he twitched at the back of her dress , so that she was forced to look round.
She recognized him by his collar , and took him into her chamber with her , and said , `` Dear Wolf , what dost thou want ?"
He answered , `` My master , who killed the dragon , is here , I am to ask for some vegetables , such as the person_0 eats"
Then she made the cook come , and he had to make ready a dish of vegetables , such as the person_0 ate , and had to carry it for the wolf as far as the door , and then the wolf took the dish from him , and carried it to his master.
`` Behold , sir host ,"
said the huntsman , `` now I have bread and meat and vegetables , but I will also have some pastry to eat like that which the person_0 eats"
He called the bear , and said , `` Dear Bear , thou art fond of licking anything sweet ; go and bring me some confectionery , such as the person_0 eats"
Then the bear trotted to the palace , and every one got out of his way , but when he went to the guard , they presented their muskets , and would not let him go into the royal palace.
But he got up on his hind legs , and gave them a few boxes on the ears , right and left , with his paws , so that the whole watch broke up , and then he went straight to the person_0 's daughter , placed himself behind her , and growled a little.
Then she looked behind her , knew the bear , and bade him go into her room with her , and said , `` Dear Bear , what dost thou want ?"
He answered , `` My master , who killed the dragon , is here , and I am to ask for some confectionery , such as the person_0 eats"
Then she summoned her confectioner , who had to bake confectionery such as the person_0 ate , and carry it to the door for the bear ; then the bear first licked up the comfits which had rolled down , and then he stood upright , took the dish , and carried it to his master.
`` Behold , sir host ,"
said the huntsman , `` now I have bread , meat , vegetables and confectionery , but I will drink wine also , and such as the person_0 drinks"
He called his lion to him and said , `` Dear Lion , thou thyself likest to drink till thou art intoxicated , go and fetch me some wine , such as is drunk by the person_0"
Then the lion strode through the streets , and the people fled from him , and when he came to the watch , they wanted to bar the way against him , but he did but roar once , and they all ran away.
Then the lion went to the royal apartment , and knocked at the door with his tail.
Then the person_0 's daughter came forth , and was almost afraid of the lion , but she knew him by the golden clasp of her necklace , and bade him go with her into her chamber , and said , `` Dear Lion , what wilt thou have ?"
He answered , `` My master , who killed the dragon , is here , and I am to ask for some wine such as is drunk by the person_0"
Then she bade the cup-bearer be called , who was to give the lion some wine like that which was drunk by the person_0.
The lion said , `` I will go with him , and see that I get the right wine"
Then he went down with the cup-bearer , and when they were below , the cup-bearer wanted to draw him some of the common wine that was drunk by the person_0 's servants , but the lion said , `` Stop , I will taste the wine first ,"
and he drew half a measure , and swallowed it down at one draught.
`` No ,"
said he , `` that is not right"
The cup-bearer looked at him askance , but went on , and was about to give him some out of another barrel which was for the person_0 's marshal.
The lion said , `` Stop , let me taste the wine first ,"
and drew half a measure and drank it.
`` That is better , but still not right ,"
said he.
Then the cup-bearer grew angry and said , `` How can a stupid animal like you understand wine ?"
But the lion gave him a blow behind the ears , which made him fall down by no means gently , and when he had got up again , he conducted the lion quite silently into a little cellar apart , where the person_0 's wine lay , from which no one ever drank.
The lion first drew half a measure and tried the wine , and then he said , That may possibly be the right sort , and bade the cup-bearer fill six bottles of it.
And now they went upstairs again , but when the lion came out of the cellar into the open air , he reeled here and there , and was rather drunk , and the cup-bearer was forced to carry the wine as far as the door for him , and then the lion took the handle of the basket in his mouth , and took it to his master.
The huntsman said , `` Behold , sir host , here have I bread , meat , vegetables , confectionery and wine such as the person_0 has , and now I will dine with my animals ,"
and he sat down and ate and drank , and gave the hare , the fox , the wolf , the bear , and the lion also to eat and to drink , and was joyful , for he saw that the person_0 's daughter still loved him.
And when he had finished his dinner , he said , `` Sir host , now have I eaten and drunk , as the person_0 eats and drinks , and now I will go to the person_0 's court and marry the person_0 's daughter"
Said the host , `` How can that be , when she already has a betrothed husband , and when the wedding is to be solemnized to-day ?"
Then the huntsman drew forth the handkerchief which the person_0 's daughter had given him on the dragon 's hill , and in which were folded the monster 's seven tongues , and said , `` That which I hold in my hand shall help me to do it"
Then the innkeeper looked at the handkerchief , and said , `` Whatever I believe , I do not believe that , and I am willing to stake my house and courtyard on it"
The huntsman , however , took a bag with a thousand gold pieces , put it on the table , and said , `` I stake that on it"
Now the person_0 said to his daughter , at the royal table , `` What did all the wild animals want , which have been coming to thee , and going in and out of my palace ?"
She replied , `` I may not tell you , but send and have the master of these animals brought , and you will do well"
The person_0 sent a servant to the inn , and invited the stranger , and the servant came just as the huntsman had laid his wager with the innkeeper.
Then said he , `` Behold , sir host , now the person_0 sends his servant and invites me , but I do not go in this way"
And he said to the servant , `` I request the Lord person_0 to send me royal clothing , and a carriage with six horses , and servants to attend me"
When the person_0 heard the answer , he said to his daughter , `` What shall I do ?"
She said , `` Cause him to be fetched as he desires to be , and you will do well"
Then the person_0 sent royal apparel , a carriage with six horses , and servants to wait on him.
When the huntsman saw them coming , he said , `` Behold , sir host , now I am fetched as I desired to be ,"
and he put on the royal garments , took the handkerchief with the dragon 's tongues with him , and drove off to the person_0.
When the person_0 saw him coming , he said to his daughter , `` How shall I receive him ?"
She answered , `` Go to meet him and you will do well"
Then the person_0 went to meet him and led him in , and his animals followed.
The person_0 gave him a seat near himself and his daughter , and the marshal , as bridegroom , sat on the other side , but no longer knew the huntsman.
And now at this very moment , the seven heads of the dragon were brought in as a spectacle , and the person_0 said , `` The seven heads were cut off the dragon by the marshal , wherefore to-day I give him my daughter to wife"
The the huntsman stood up , opened the seven mouths , and said , `` Where are the seven tongues of the dragon ?"
Then was the marshal terrified , and grew pale and knew not what answer he should make , and at length in his anguish he said , `` Dragons have no tongues"
The huntsman said , `` Liars ought to have none , but the dragon 's tongues are the tokens of the victor ,"
and he unfolded the handkerchief , and there lay all seven inside it.
And he put each tongue in the mouth to which it belonged , and it fitted exactly.
Then he took the handkerchief on which the name of the princess was embroidered , and showed it to the maiden , and asked to whom she had given it , and she replied , `` To him who killed the dragon"
And then he called his animals , and took the collar off each of them and the golden clasp from the lion , and showed them to the maiden and asked to whom they belonged.
She answered , `` The necklace and golden clasp were mine , but I divided them among the animals who helped to conquer the dragon"
Then spake the huntsman , `` When I , tired with the fight , was resting and sleeping , the marshal came and cut off my head.
Then he carried away the person_0 's daughter , and gave out that it was he who had killed the dragon , but that he lied I prove with the tongues , the handkerchief , and the necklace"
And then he related how his animals had healed him by means of a wonderful root , and how he had traveled about with them for one year , and had at length again come there and had learned the treachery of the marshal by the inn-keeper 's story.
Then the person_0 asked his daughter , `` Is it true that this man killed the dragon ?"
And she answered , `` Yes , it is true.
Now can I reveal the wicked deed of the marshal , as it has come to light without my connivance , for he wrung from me a promise to be silent.
For this reason , however , did I make the condition that the marriage should not be solemnized for a year and a day"
Then the person_0 bade twelve councillors be summoned who were to pronounce judgment on the marshal , and they sentenced him to be torn to pieces by four bulls.
The marshal was therefore executed , but the person_0 gave his daughter to the huntsman , and named him his viceroy over the whole kingdom.
The wedding was celebrated with great joy , and the young person_0 caused his father and his foster-father to be brought , and loaded them with treasures.
Neither did he forget the inn-keeper , but sent for him and said , `` Behold , sir host , I have married the person_0 's daughter , and your house and yard are mine"
The host said , `` Yes , according to justice it is so"
But the young person_0 said , `` It shall be done according to mercy ,"
and told him that he should keep his house and yard , and gave him the thousand pieces of gold as well.
And now the young person_0 and Queen were thoroughly happy , and lived in gladness together.
He often went out hunting because it was a delight to him , and the faithful animals had to accompany him.
In the neighborhood , however , there was a forest of which it was reported that it was haunted , and that whosoever did but enter it did not easily get out again.
The young person_0 , however , had a great inclination to hunt in it , and let the old person_0 have no peace until he allowed him to do so.
So he rode forth with a great following , and when he came to the forest , he saw a snow-white hart and said to his people , `` Wait here until I return , I want to chase that beautiful creature ,"
and he rode into the forest after it , followed only by his animals.
The attendants halted and waited until evening , but he did not return , so they rode home , and told the young Queen that the young person_0 had followed a white hart into the enchanted forest , and had not come back again.
Then she was in the greatest concern about him.
He , however , had still continued to ride on and on after the beautiful wild animal , and had never been able to overtake it ; when he thought he was near enough to aim , he instantly saw it bound away into the far distance , and at length it vanished altogether.
And now he perceived that he had penetrated deep into the forest , and blew his horn but he received no answer , for his attendants could not hear it.
And as night , too , was falling , he saw that he could not get home that day , so he dismounted from his horse , lighted himself a fire near a tree , and resolved to spend the night by it.
While he was sitting by the fire , and his animals also were lying down beside him , it seemed to him that he heard a human voice.
He looked round , but could perceived nothing.
Soon afterwards , he again heard a groan as if from above , and then he looked up , and saw an old woman sitting in the tree , who wailed unceasingly , `` Oh , oh , oh , how cold I am !"
Said he , `` Come down , and warm thyself if thou art cold"
But she said , `` No , thy animals will bite me"
He answered , `` They will do thee no harm , old mother , do come down"
She , however , was a witch , and said , `` I will throw down a wand from the tree , and if thou strikest them on the back with it , they will do me no harm"
Then she threw him a small wand , and he struck them with it , and instantly they lay still and were turned into stone.
And when the witch was safe from the animals , she leapt down and touched him also with a wand , and changed him to stone.
Thereupon she laughed , and dragged him and the animals into a vault , where many more such stones already lay.
As , however , the young person_0 did not come back at all , the Queen 's anguish and care grew constantly greater.
And it so happened that at this very time the other brother who had turned to the east when they separated , came into the kingdom.
He had sought a situation , and had found none , and had then traveled about here and there , and had made his animals dance.
Then it came into his mind that he would just go and look at the knife that they had thrust in the trunk of a tree at their parting , that he might learn how his brother was.
When he got there his brother 's side of the knife was half rusted , and half bright.
Then he was alarmed and thought , `` A great misfortune must have befallen my brother , but perhaps I can still save him , for half the knife is still bright"
He and his animals traveled towards the west , and when he entered the gate of the town , the guard came to meet him , and asked if he was to announce him to his consort the young Queen , who had for a couple of days been in the greatest sorrow about his staying away , and was afraid he had been killed in the enchanted forest ? The sentries , indeed , thought no otherwise than that he was the young person_0 himself , for he looked so like him , and had wild animals running behind him.
Then he saw that they were speaking of his brother , and thought , `` It will be better if I pass myself off for him , and then I can rescue him more easily"
So he allowed himself to be escorted into the castle by the guard , and was received with the greatest joy.
The young Queen indeed thought that he was her husband , and asked him why he had stayed away so long.
He answered , `` I had lost myself in a forest , and could not find my way out again any sooner"
At night he was taken to the royal bed , but he laid a two-edged sword between him and the young Queen ; she did not know what that could mean , but did not venture to ask.
He remained in the palace a couple of days , and in the meantime inquired into everything which related to the enchanted forest , and at last he said , `` I must hunt there once more"
The person_0 and the young Queen wanted to persuade him not to do it , but he stood out against them , and went forth with a larger following.
When he had got into the forest , it fared with him as with his brother ; he saw a white hart and said to his people , `` Stay here , and wait until I return , I want to chase the lovely wild beast ,"
and then he rode into the forest and his animals ran after him.
But he could not overtake the hart , and got so deep into the forest that he was forced to pass the night there.
And when he had lighted a fire , he heard some one wailing above him , `` Oh , oh , oh , how cold I am !"
Then he looked up , and the self-same witch was sitting in the tree.
Said he , `` If thou art cold , come down , little old mother , and warm thyself"
She answered , `` No , thy animals will bite me"
But he said , `` They will not hurt thee"
Then she cried , `` I will throw down a wand to thee , and if thou smitest them with it they will do me no harm"
When the huntsman heard that , he had no confidence in the old woman , and said , `` I will not strike my animals.
Come down , or I will fetch thee"
Then she cried , `` What dost thou want ? Thou shalt not touch me"
But he replied , `` If thou dost not come , I will shoot thee"
Said she , `` Shoot away , I do not fear thy bullets !"
Then he aimed , and fired at her , but the witch was proof against all leaden bullets , and laughed , and yelled and cried , `` Thou shalt not hit me"
The huntsman knew what to do , tore three silver buttons off his coat , and loaded his gun with them , for against them her arts were useless , and when he fired she fell down at once with a scream.
Then he set his foot on her and said , Old witch , if thou dost not instantly confess where my brother is , I will seize thee with both my hands and throw thee into the fire.
She was in a great fright , begged for mercy and said , He and his animals lie in a vault , turned to stone.
Then he compelled her to go thither with him , threatened her , and said , Old sea-cat , now shalt thou make my brother and all the human beings lying here , alive again , or thou shalt go into the fire ! She took a wand and touched the stones , and then his brother with his animals came to life again , and many others , merchants , artizans , and shepherds , arose , thanked him for their deliverance , and went to their homes.
But when the twin brothers saw each other again , they kissed each other and rejoiced with all their hearts.
Then they seized the witch , bound her and laid her on the fire , and when she was burnt the forest opened of its own accord , and was light and clear , and the person_0 's palace could be seen at about the distance of a three hours walk.
Thereupon the two brothers went home together , and on the way told each other their histories.
And when the youngest said that he was ruler of the whole country in the person_0 's stead , the other observed , `` That I remarked very well , for when I came to the town , and was taken for thee , all royal honors were paid me ; the young Queen looked on me as her husband , and I had to eat at her side , and sleep in thy bed"
When the other heard that , he became so jealous and angry that he drew his sword , and struck off his brother 's head.
But when he saw him lying there dead , and saw his red blood flowing , he repented most violently : `` My brother delivered me ,"
cried he , `` and I have killed him for it ,"
and he bewailed him aloud.
Then his hare came and offered to go and bring some of the root of life , and bounded away and brought it while yet there was time , and the dead man was brought to life again , and knew nothing about the wound.
After this they journeyed onwards , and the youngest said , `` Thou lookest like me , hast royal apparel on as I have , and the animals follow thee as they do me ; we will go in by opposite gates , and arrive at the same time from the two sides in the aged person_0 's presence"
So they separated , and at the same time came the watchmen from the one door and from the other , and announced that the young person_0 and the animals had returned from the chase.
The person_0 said , `` It is not possible , the gates lie quite a mile apart"
In the meantime , however , the two brothers entered the courtyard of the palace from opposite sides , and both mounted the steps.
Then the person_0 said to the daughter , `` Say which is thy husband.
Each of them looks exactly like the other , I can not tell"
Then she was in great distress , and could not tell ; but at last she remembered the necklace which she had given to the animals , and she sought for and found her little golden clasp on the lion , and she cried in her delight , `` He who is followed by this lion is my true husband"
Then the young person_0 laughed and said , `` Yes , he is the right one ,"
and they sat down together to table , and ate and drank , and were merry.
At night when the young person_0 went to bed , his wife said , `` Why hast thou for these last nights always laid a two-edged sword in our bed ? I thought thou hadst a wish to kill me"
Then he knew how true his brother had been"
Long years ago in old Japan there lived in the Province of Echigo , a very remote part of Japan even in these days , a man and his wife.
When this story begins they had been married for some years and were blessed with one little daughter.
She was the joy and pride of both their lives , and in her they stored an endless source of happiness for their old age.
What golden letter days in their memory were these that had marked her growing up from babyhood ; the visit to the temple when she was just thirty days old , her proud mother carrying her , robed in ceremonial kimono , to be put under the patronage of the family 's household god ; then her first dolls festival , when her parents gave her a set of dolls ' and their miniature belongings , to be added to as year succeeded year ; and perhaps the most important occasion of all , on her third birthday , when her first OBI -LRB- broad brocade sash -RRB- of scarlet and gold was tied round her small waist , a sign that she had crossed the threshold of girlhood and left infancy behind.
Now that she was seven years of age , and had learned to talk and to wait upon her parents in those several little ways so dear to the hearts of fond parents , their cup of happiness seemed full.
There could not be found in the whole of the Island Empire a happier little family.
One day there was much excitement in the home , for the father had been suddenly summoned to the capital on business.
In these days of railways and jinrickshas and other rapid modes of traveling , it is difficult to realize what such a journey as that from Matsuyama to Kyoto meant.
The roads were rough and bad , and ordinary people had to walk every step of the way , whether the distance were one hundred or several hundred miles.
Indeed , in those days it was as great an undertaking to go up to the capital as it is for a Japanese to make a voyage to Europe now.
So the wife was very anxious while she helped her husband get ready for the long journey , knowing what an arduous task lay before him.
Vainly she wished that she could accompany him , but the distance was too great for the mother and child to go , and besides that , it was the wife 's duty to take care of the home.
All was ready at last , and the husband stood in the porch with his little family round him.
`` Do not be anxious , I will come back soon ,"
said the man.
`` While I am away take care of everything , and especially of our little daughter"
`` Yes.
we shall be all right -- but you -- you must take care of yourself and delay not a day in coming back to us ,"
said the wife , while the tears fell like rain from her eyes.
The little girl was the only one to smile , for she was ignorant of the sorrow of parting , and did not know that going to the capital was at all different from walking to the next village , which her father did very often.
She ran to his side , and caught hold of his long sleeve to keep him a moment.
`` Father , I will be very good while I am waiting for you to come back , so please bring me a present"
As the father turned to take a last look at his weeping wife and smiling , eager child , he felt as if some one were pulling him back by the hair , so hard was it for him to leave them behind , for they had never been separated before.
But he knew that he must go , for the call was imperative.
With a great effort he ceased to think , and resolutely turning away he went quickly down the little garden and out through the gate.
His wife , catching up the child in her arms , ran as far as the gate , and watched him as he went down the road between the pines till he was lost in the haze of the distance and all she could see was his quaint peaked hat , and at last that vanished too.
`` Now father has gone , you and I must take care of everything till he comes back ,"
said the mother , as she made her way back to the house.
`` Yes , I will be very good ,"
said the child , nodding her head , `` and when father comes home please tell him how good I have been , and then perhaps he will give me a present"
`` Father is sure to bring you something that you want very much.
I know , for I asked him to bring you a doll.
You must think of father every day , and pray for a safe journey till he comes back"
`` O , yes , when he comes home again how happy I shall be ,"
said the child , clapping her hands , and her face growing bright with joy at the glad thought.
It seemed to the mother as she looked at the child 's face that her love for her grew deeper and deeper.
Then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of them.
She set up her simple wooden spinning-wheel and spun the thread before she began to weave the stuffs.
In the intervals of her work she directed the little girl 's games and taught her to read the old stories of her country.
Thus did the wife find consolation in work during the lonely days of her husband 's absence.
While the time was thus slipping quickly by in the quiet home , the husband finished his business and returned.
It would have been difficult for any one who did not know the man well to recognize him.
He had traveled day after day , exposed to all weathers , for about a month altogether , and was sunburnt to bronze , but his fond wife and child knew him at a glance , and flew to meet him from either side , each catching hold of one of his sleeves in their eager greeting.
Both the man and his wife rejoiced to find each other well.
It seemed a very long time to all till -- the mother and child helping -- his straw sandals were untied , his large umbrella hat taken off , and he was again in their midst in the old familiar sitting-room that had been so empty while he was away.
As soon as they had sat down on the white mats , the father opened a bamboo basket that he had brought in with him , and took out a beautiful doll and a lacquer box full of cakes.
`` Here ,"
he said to the little girl , `` is a present for you.
It is a prize for taking care of mother and the house so well while I was away"
`` Thank you ,"
said the child , as she bowed her head to the ground , and then put out her hand just like a little maple leaf with its eager wide-spread fingers to take the doll and the box , both of which , coming from the capital , were prettier than anything she had ever seen.
No words can tell how delighted the little girl was -- her face seemed as if it would melt with joy , and she had no eyes and no thought for anything else.
Again the husband dived into the basket , and brought out this time a square wooden box , carefully tied up with red and white string , and handing it to his wife , said : `` And this is for you"
The wife took the box , and opening it carefully took out a metal disk with a handle attached.
One side was bright and shining like a crystal , and the other was covered with raised figures of pine-trees and storks , which had been carved out of its smooth surface in lifelike reality.
Never had she seen such a thing in her life , for she had been born and bred in the rural province of Echigo.
She gazed into the shining disk , and looking up with surprise and wonder pictured on her face , she said : `` I see somebody looking at me in this round thing ! What is it that you have given me"
The husband laughed and said : `` Why , it is your own face that you see.
What I have brought you is called a mirror , and whoever looks into its clear surface can see their own form reflected there.
Although there are none to be found in this out of the way place , yet they have been in use in the capital from the most ancient times.
There the mirror is considered a very necessary requisite for a woman to possess.
There is an old proverb that ` As the sword is the soul of a samurai , so is the mirror the soul of a woman , ' and according to popular tradition , a woman 's mirror is an index to her own heart -- if she keeps it bright and clear , so is her heart pure and good.
It is also one of the treasures that form the insignia of the Emperor.
So you must lay great store by your mirror , and use it carefully"
The wife listened to all her husband told her , and was pleased at learning so much that was new to her.
She was still more pleased at the precious gift -- his token of remembrance while he had been away.
`` If the mirror represents my soul , I shall certainly treasure it as a valuable possession , and never will I use it carelessly"
Saying so , she lifted it as high as her forehead , in grateful acknowledgment of the gift , and then shut it up in its box and put it away.
The wife saw that her husband was very tired , and set about serving the evening meal and making everything as comfortable as she could for him.
It seemed to the little family as if they had not known what true happiness was before , so glad were they to be together again , and this evening the father had much to tell of his journey and of all he had seen at the great capital.
Time passed away in the peaceful home , and the parents saw their fondest hopes realized as their daughter grew from childhood into a beautiful girl of sixteen.
As a gem of priceless value is held in its proud owner 's hand , so had they reared her with unceasing love and care : and now their pains were more than doubly rewarded.
What a comfort she was to her mother as she went about the house taking her part in the housekeeping , and how proud her father was of her , for she daily reminded him of her mother when he had first married her.
But , alas ! in this world nothing lasts forever.
Even the moon is not always perfect in shape , but loses its roundness with time , and flowers bloom and then fade.
So at last the happiness of this family was broken up by a great sorrow.
The good and gentle wife and mother was one day taken ill.
.
In the first days of her illness the father and daughter thought that it was only a cold , and were not particularly anxious.
But the days went by and still the mother did not get better ; she only grew worse , and the doctor was puzzled , for in spite of all he did the poor woman grew weaker day by day.
The father and daughter were stricken with grief , and day or night the girl never left her mother 's side.
But in spite of all their efforts the woman 's life was not to be saved.
One day as the girl sat near her mother 's bed , trying to hide with a cheery smile the gnawing trouble at her heart , the mother roused herself and taking her daughter 's hand , gazed earnestly and lovingly into her eyes.
Her breath was labored and she spoke with difficulty : `` My daughter.
I am sure that nothing can save me now.
When I am dead , promise me to take care of your dear father and to try to be a good and dutiful woman"
`` Oh , mother ,"
said the girl as the tears rushed to her eyes , `` you must not say such things.
All you have to do is to make haste and get well -- that will bring the greatest happiness to father and myself"
`` Yes , I know , and it is a comfort to me in my last days to know how greatly you long for me to get better , but it is not to be.
Do not look so sorrowful , for it was so ordained in my previous state of existence that I should die in this life just at this time ; knowing this , I am quite resigned to my fate.
And now I have something to give you whereby to remember me when I am gone"
Putting her hand out , she took from the side of the pillow a square wooden box tied up with a silken cord and tassels.
Undoing this very carefully , she took out of the box the mirror that her husband had given her years ago.
`` When you were still a little child your father went up to the capital and brought me back as a present this treasure ; it is called a mirror.
This I give you before I die.
If , after I have ceased to be in this life , you are lonely and long to see me sometimes , then take out this mirror and in the clear and shining surface you will always see me -- so will you be able to meet with me often and tell me all your heart ; and though I shall not be able to speak , I shall understand and sympathize with you , whatever may happen to you in the future"
With these words the dying woman handed the mirror to her daughter.
The mind of the good mother seemed to be now at rest , and sinking back without another word her spirit passed quietly away that day.
The bereaved father and daughter were wild with grief , and they abandoned themselves to their bitter sorrow.
They felt it to be impossible to take leave of the loved woman who till now had filled their whole lives and to commit her body to the earth.
But this frantic burst of grief passed , and then they took possession of their own hearts again , crushed though they were in resignation.
In spite of this the daughter 's life seemed to her desolate.
Her love for her dead mother did not grow less with time , and so keen was her remembrance , that everything in daily life , even the falling of the rain and the blowing of the wind , reminded her of her mother 's death and of all that they had loved and shared together.
One day when her father was out , and she was fulfilling her household duties alone , her loneliness and sorrow seemed more than she could bear.
She threw herself down in her mother 's room and wept as if her heart would break.
Poor child , she longed just for one glimpse of the loved face , one sound of the voice calling her pet name , or for one moment 's forgetfulness of the aching void in her heart.
Suddenly she sat up.
Her mother 's last words had rung through her memory hitherto dulled by grief.
`` Oh ! my mother told me when she gave me the mirror as a parting gift , that whenever I looked into it I should be able to meet her -- to see her.
I had nearly forgotten her last words -- how stupid I am ; I will get the mirror now and see if it can possibly be true !"
She dried her eyes quickly , and going to the cupboard took out the box that contained the mirror , her heart beating with expectation as she lifted the mirror out and gazed into its smooth face.
Behold , her mother 's words were true ! In the round mirror before her she saw her mother 's face ; but , oh , the joyful surprise ! It was not her mother thin and wasted by illness , but the young and beautiful woman as she remembered her far back in the days of her own earliest childhood.
It seemed to the girl that the face in the mirror must soon speak , almost that she heard the voice of her mother telling her again to grow up a good woman and a dutiful daughter , so earnestly did the eyes in the mirror look back into her own.
`` It is certainly my mother 's soul that I see.
She knows how miserable I am without her and she has come to comfort me.
Whenever I long to see her she will meet me here ; how grateful I ought to be !"
And from this time the weight of sorrow was greatly lightened for her young heart.
Every morning , to gather strength for the day 's duties before her , and every evening , for consolation before she lay down to rest , did the young girl take out the mirror and gaze at the reflection which in the simplicity of her innocent heart she believed to be her mother 's soul.
Daily she grew in the likeness of her dead mother 's character , and was gentle and kind to all , and a dutiful daughter to her father.
A year spent in mourning had thus passed away in the little household , when , by the advice of his relations , the man married again , and the daughter now found herself under the authority of a step-mother.
It was a trying position ; but her days spent in the recollection of her own beloved mother , and of trying to be what that mother would wish her to be , had made the young girl docile and patient , and she now determined to be filial and dutiful to her father 's wife , in all respects.
Everything went on apparently smoothly in the family for some time under the new regime ; there were no winds or waves of discord to ruffle the surface of every-day life , and the father was content.
But it is a woman 's danger to be petty and mean , and step-mothers are proverbial all the world over , and this one 's heart was not as her first smiles were.
As the days and weeks grew into months , the step-mother began to treat the motherless girl unkindly and to try and come between the father and child.
Sometimes she went to her husband and complained of her step - daughter 's behavior , but the father knowing that this was to be expected , took no notice of her ill-natured complaints.
Instead of lessening his affection for his daughter , as the woman desired , her grumblings only made him think of her the more.
The woman soon saw that he began to show more concern for his lonely child than before.
This did not please her at all , and she began to turn over in her mind how she could , by some means or other , drive her step-child out of the house.
So crooked did the woman 's heart become.
She watched the girl carefully , and one day peeping into her room in the early morning , she thought she discovered a grave enough sin of which to accuse the child to her father.
The woman herself was a little frightened too at what she had seen.
So she went at once to her husband , and wiping away some false tears she said in a sad voice : `` Please give me permission to leave you today"
The man was completely taken by surprise at the suddenness of her request , and wondered whatever was the matter.
`` Do you find it so disagreeable ,"
he asked , `` in my house , that you can stay no longer ?"
`` No ! no ! it has nothing to do with you -- even in my dreams I have never thought that I wished to leave your side ; but if I go on living here I am in danger of losing my life , so I think it best for all concerned that you should allow me to go home !"
And the woman began to weep afresh.
Her husband , distressed to see her so unhappy , and thinking that he could not have heard aright , said : `` Tell me what you mean ! How is your life in danger here ?"
`` I will tell you since you ask me.
Your daughter dislikes me as her step-mother.
For some time past she has shut herself up in her room morning and evening , and looking in as I pass by , I am convinced that she has made an image of me and is trying to kill me by magic art , cursing me daily.
It is not safe for me to stay here , such being the case ; indeed , indeed , I must go away , we can not live under the same roof any more"
The husband listened to the dreadful tale , but he could not believe his gentle daughter guilty of such an evil act.
He knew that by popular superstition people believed that one person could cause the gradual death of another by making an image of the hated one and cursing it daily ; but where had his young daughter learned such knowledge ? -- the thing was impossible.
Yet he remembered having noticed that his daughter stayed much in her room of late and kept herself away from every one , even when visitors came to the house.
Putting this fact together with his wife 's alarm , he thought that there might be something to account for the strange story.
His heart was torn between doubting his wife and trusting his child , and he knew not what to do.
He decided to go at once to his daughter and try to find out the truth.
Comforting his wife and assuring her that her fears were groundless , he glided quietly to his daughter 's room.
The girl had for a long time past been very unhappy.
She had tried by amiability and obedience to show her goodwill and to mollify the new wife , and to break down that wall of prejudice and misunderstanding that she knew generally stood between step-parents and their step-children.
But she soon found that her efforts were in vain.
The step-mother never trusted her , and seemed to misinterpret all her actions , and the poor child knew very well that she often carried unkind and untrue tales to her father.
She could not help comparing her present unhappy condition with the time when her own mother was alive only a little more than a year ago -- so great a change in this short time ! Morning and evening she wept over the remembrance.
Whenever she could she went to her room , and sliding the screens to , took out the mirror and gazed , as she thought , at her mother 's face.
It was the only comfort that she had in these wretched days.
Her father found her occupied in this way.
Pushing aside the fusama , he saw her bending over something or other very intently.
Looking over her shoulder , to see who was entering her room , the girl was surprised to see her father , for he generally sent for her when he wished to speak to her.
She was also confused at being found looking at the mirror , for she had never told any one of her mother 's last promise , but had kept it as the sacred secret of her heart.
So before turning to her father she slipped the mirror into her long sleeve.
Her father noting her confusion , and her act of hiding something , said in a severe manner : `` Daughter , what are you doing here ? And what is that that you have hidden in your sleeve ?"
The girl was frightened by her father 's severity.
Never had he spoken to her in such a tone.
Her confusion changed to apprehension , her color from scarlet to white.
She sat dumb and shamefaced , unable to reply.
Appearances were certainly against her ; the young girl looked guilty , and the father thinking that perhaps after all what his wife had told him was true , spoke angrily : `` Then , is it really true that you are daily cursing your step-mother and praying for her death ? Have you forgotten what I told you , that although she is your step-mother you must he obedient and loyal to her ? What evil spirit has taken possession of your heart that you should be so wicked ? You have certainly changed , my daughter ! What has made you so disobedient and unfaithful ?"
And the father 's eyes filled with sudden tears to think that he should have to upbraid his daughter in this way.
She on her part did not know what he meant , for she had never heard of the superstition that by praying over an image it is possible to cause the death of a hated person.
But she saw that she must speak and clear herself somehow.
She loved her father dearly , and could not bear the idea of his anger.
She put out her hand on his knee deprecatingly : `` Father ! father ! do not say such dreadful things to me.
I am still your obedient child.
Indeed , I am.
However stupid I may be , I should never be able to curse any one who belonged to you , much less pray for the death of one you love.
Surely some one has been telling you lies , and you are dazed , and you know not what you say -- or some evil spirit has taken possession of YOUR heart.
As for me I do not know -- no , not so much as a dew-drop , of the evil thing of which you accuse me"
But the father remembered that she had hidden something away when he first entered the room , and even this earnest protest did not satisfy him.
He wished to clear up his doubts once for all.
`` Then why are you always alone in your room these days ? And tell me what is that that you have hidden in your sleeve -- show it to me at once"
Then the daughter , though shy of confessing how she had cherished her mother 's memory , saw that she must tell her father all in order to clear herself.
So she slipped the mirror out from her long sleeve and laid it before him.
`` This ,"
she said , `` is what you saw me looking at just now"
`` Why ,"
he said in great surprise"
this is the mirror that I brought as a gift to your mother when I went up to the capital many years ago ! And so you have kept it all this time ? Now , why do you spend so much of your time before this mirror ?"
Then she told him of her mother 's last words , and of how she had promised to meet her child whenever she looked into the glass.
But still the father could not understand the simplicity of his daughter 's character in not knowing that what she saw reflected in the mirror was in reality her own face , and not that of her mother.
`` What do you mean ?"
he asked.
`` I do not understand how you can meet the soul of your lost mother by looking in this mirror ?"
`` It is indeed true ,"
said the girl : `` and if you do n't believe what I say , look for yourself ,"
and she placed the mirror before her.
There , looking back from the smooth metal disk , was her own sweet face.
She pointed to the reflection seriously : `` Do you doubt me still ?"
she asked earnestly , looking up into his face.
With an exclamation of sudden understanding the father smote his two hands together.
`` How stupid I am ! At last I understand.
Your face is as like your mother 's as the two sides of a melon -- thus you have looked at the reflection of your face ail this time , thinking that you were brought face to face with your lost mother ! You are truly a faithful child.
It seems at first a stupid thing to have done , but it is not really so , It shows how deep has been your filialpiety , and how innocent your heart.
Living in constant remembrance of your lost mother has helped you to grow like her in character.
How clever it was of her to tell you to do this.
I admire and respect you , my daughter , and I am ashamed to think that for one instant I believed your suspicious step-mother 's story and suspected you of evil , and came with the intention of scolding you severely , while all this time you have been so true and good.
Before you I have no countenance left , and I beg you to forgive me"
And here the father wept.
He thought of how lonely the poor girl must have been , and of all that she must have suffered under her step-mother 's treatment.
His daughter steadfastly keeping her faith and simplicity in the midst of such adverse circumstances -- bearing all her troubles with so much patience and amiability -- made him compare her to the lotus which rears its blossom of dazzling beauty out of the slime and mud of the moats and ponds , fitting emblem of a heart which keeps itself unsullied while passing through the world.
The step-mother , anxious to know what would happen , had all this while been standing outside the room.
She had grown interested , and had gradually pushed the sliding screen back till she could see all that went on.
At this moment she suddenly entered the room , and dropping to the mats , she bowed her head over her outspread hands before her step-daughter.
`` I am ashamed ! I am ashamed !"
she exclaimed in broken tones.
`` I did not know what n filial child you were.
Through no fault of yours , but with a step-mother 's jealous heart , I have disliked you all the time.
Hating you so much myself , it was but natural that I should think you reciprocated the feeling , and thus when I saw you retire so often to your room I followed you , and when I saw you gaze daily into the mirror for long intervals , I concluded that you had found out how I disliked you , and that you were out of revenge trying to take my life by magic art.
As long as I live I shall never forget the wrong I have done you in so misjudging you , and in causing your father to suspect you.
From this day I throw away my old and wicked heart , and in its place I put a new one , clean and full of repentance.
I shall think of you as a child that I have borne myself.
I shall love and cherish you with all my heart , and thus try to make up for all the unhappiness I have caused you.
Therefore , please throw into the water all that has gone before , and give me , I beg of you , some of the filial love that you have hitherto given to your own lost mother"
Thus did the unkind step-mother humble herself and ask forgiveness of the girl she had so wronged.
Such was the sweetness of the girl 's disposition that she willingly forgave her step-mother , and never bore a moment 's resentment or malice towards her afterwards.
The father saw by his wife 's face that she was truly sorry for the past , and was greatly relieved to see the terrible misunderstanding wiped out of remembrance by both the wrong-doer and the wronged.
From this time on , the three lived together as happily as fish in water.
No such trouble ever darkened the home again , and the young girl gradually forgot that year of unhappiness in the tender love and care that her step-mother now bestowed on her.
Her patience and goodness were rewarded at last"
FIRST STORY There was once on a time an old fox with nine tails , who believed that his wife was not faithful to him , and wished to try her.
He stretched himself out under the bench , did not move a limb , and behaved as if he were stone dead.
person_1s.
Fox went up to her room , shut herself in , and her maid , Miss Cat , sat by the fire , and did the cooking.
When it became known that the old fox was dead , wooers presented themselves.
The maid heard some one standing at the house-door , knocking.
She went and opened it , and it was a young fox , who said , `` What may you be about , Miss Cat ? Do you sleep or do you wake ?"
She answered , `` I am not sleeping , I am waking , Wouldst thou know what I am making ? I am boiling warm beer with butter so nice , Will the gentleman enter and drink some likewise ?"
`` No , thank you , miss ,"
said the fox , `` what is person_1s.
Fox doing ?"
The maid replied , `` She sits all alone , And makes her moan , Weeping her little eyes quite red , Because old person_1.
Fox is dead"
`` Do just tell her , miss , that a young fox is here , who would like to woo her"
`` Certainly , young sir"
The cat goes up the stairs trip , trap , The door she knocks at tap , tap , tap , `` Mistress Fox , are you inside ?"
`` Oh yes , my little cat ,"
she cried.
`` A wooer he stands at the door out there"
`` Tell me what he is like , my dear ?"
`` But has he nine as beautiful tails as the late person_1.
Fox ?"
`` Oh , no ,"
answered the cat , `` he has only one"
`` Then I will not have him"
Miss Cat went downstairs and sent the wooer away.
Soon afterwards there was another knock , and another fox was at the door who wished to woo person_1s.
Fox.
He had two tails , but he did not fare better than the first.
After this still more came , each with one tail more than the other , but they were all turned away , until at last one came who had nine tails , like old person_1.
Fox.
When the widow heard that , she said joyfully to the cat , `` Now open the gates and doors all wide , And carry old person_1.
Fox outside"
But just as the wedding was going to be solemnized , old person_1.
Fox stirred under the bench , and cudgelled all the rabble , and drove them and person_1s.
Fox out of the house.
SECOND STORY When old person_1.
Fox was dead , the wolf came as a wooer , and knocked at the door , and the cat who was servant to person_1s.
Fox , opened it for him.
The wolf greeted her , and said , `` Good day , person_1s.
Cat of Kehrewit , `` How comes it that alone you sit ? What are you making good ?"
The cat replied , `` In milk I 'm breaking bread so sweet , Will the gentleman please come in and eat ?"
`` No , thank you , person_1s.
Cat ,"
answered the wolf.
`` Is person_1s.
Fox not at home ?"
The cat said , `` She sits upstairs in her room , Bewailing her sorrowful doom , Bewailing her trouble so sore , For old person_1.
Fox is no more"
The wolf answered , `` If she 's in want of a husband now , Then will it please her to step below ?"
The cat runs quickly up the stair , And lets her tail fly here and there , Until she comes to the parlor door.
With her five gold rings at the door she knocks , `` Are you within , good Mistress Fox ? If you 're in want of a husband now , Then will it please you to step below ? person_1s.
Fox asked , `` Has the gentleman red stockings on ' and has he a pointed mouth ?"
`` No ,"
answered the cat.
`` Then he wo n't do for me"
When the wolf was gone , came a dog , a stag , a hare , a bear , a lion , and all the beasts of the forest , one after the other.
But one of the good points which old person_1.
Fox had possessed , was always lacking , and the cat had continually to send the wooers away.
At length came a young fox.
Then person_1s.
Fox said , `` Has the gentleman red stockings on , and has he a little pointed mouth ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the cat , `` he has"
`` Then let him come upstairs ,"
said person_1s.
Fox , and ordered the servant to prepare the wedding-feast.
`` Sweep me the room as clean as you can , Up with the window , fling out my old man ! For many a fine fat mouse he brought , Yet of his wife he never thought , But ate up every one he caught"
Then the wedding was solemnized with young person_1.
Fox , and there was much rejoicing and dancing ; and if they have not left off , they are dancing still"
by Brothers Grimm In ancient times a giant was once traveling on a great highway , when suddenly an unknown man sprang up before him , and said , `` Halt , not one step farther !"
`` What !"
cried the giant , `` a creature whom I can crush between my fingers , wants to block my way ? Who art thou that thou darest to speak so boldly ?"
`` I am person_0 ,"
answered the other.
`` No one resists me , and thou also must obey my commands"
But the giant refused , and began to struggle with person_0.
It was a long , violent battle , at last the giant got the upper hand , and struck person_0 down with his fist , so that he dropped by a stone.
The giant went his way , and person_0 lay there conquered , and so weak that he could not get up again.
`` What will be done now ,"
said he , `` if I stay lying here in a corner ? No one will die in the world , and it will get so full of people that they wo n't have room to stand beside each other"
In the meantime a young man came along the road , who was strong and healthy , singing a song , and glancing around on every side.
When he saw the half-fainting one , he went compassionately to him , raised him up , poured a strengthening draught out of his flask for him , and waited till he came round.
`` Dost thou know ,"
said the stranger , whilst he was getting up , `` who I am , and who it is whom thou hast helped on his legs again ?"
`` No ,"
answered the youth , `` I do not know thee"
`` I am person_0 ,"
said he.
`` I spare no one , and can make no exception with thee , but that thou mayst see that I am grateful , I promise thee that I will not fall on thee unexpectedly , but will send my messengers to thee before I come and take thee away"
`` Well ,"
said the youth , `` it is something gained that I shall know when thou comest , and at any rate be safe from thee for so long"
Then he went on his way , and was light-hearted , and enjoyed himself , and lived without thought.
But youth and health did not last long , soon came sicknesses and sorrows , which tormented him by day , and took away his rest by night.
`` Die , I shall not ,"
said he to himself , `` for person_0 will send his messengers before that , but I do wish these wretched days of sickness were over"
As soon as he felt himself well again he began once more to live merrily.
Then one day some one tapped him on the shoulder.
He looked round , and person_0 stood behind him , and said , `` Follow me , the hour of thy departure from this world has come"
`` What ,"
replied the man , `` wilt thou break thy word ? Didst thou not promise me that thou wouldst send thy messengers to me before coming thyself ? I have seen none !"
`` Silence !"
answered person_0.
`` Have I not sent one messenger to thee after another ? Did not fever come and smite thee , and shake thee , and cast thee down ? Has dizziness not bewildered thy head ? Has not gout twitched thee in all thy limbs ? Did not thine ears sing ? Did not tooth-ache bite into thy cheeks ? Was it not dark before thine eyes ? And besides all that , has not my own brother Sleep reminded thee every night of me ? Didst thou not lie by night as if thou wert already dead ? The man could make no answer ; he yielded to his fate , and went away with person_0"
`` I come from person_0 ,"
said the Moon.
`` In the midst of the city , upon one of the seven hills , lie the ruins of the imperial palace.
The wild fig tree grows in the clefts of the wall , and covers the nakedness thereof with its broad grey-green leaves ; trampling among heaps of rubbish , the ass treads upon green laurels , and rejoices over the rank thistles.
From this spot , whence the eagles of person_0 once flew abroad , whence they ` came , saw , and conquered , ' our door leads into a little mean house , built of clay between two pillars ; the wild vine hangs like a mourning garland over the crooked window.
An old woman and her little granddaughter live there : they rule now in the palace of the Caesars , and show to strangers the remains of its past glories.
Of the splendid throne-hall only a naked wall yet stands , and a black cypress throws its dark shadow on the spot where the throne once stood.
The dust lies several feet deep on the broken pavement ; and the little maiden , now the daughter of the imperial palace , often sits there on her stool when the evening bells ring.
The keyhole of the door close by she calls her turret window ; through this she can see half person_0 , as far as the mighty cupola of St.
Peter 's.
`` On this evening , as usual , stillness reigned around ; and in the full beam of my light came the little granddaughter.
On her head she carried an earthen pitcher of antique shape filled with water.
Her feet were bare , her short frock and her white sleeves were torn.
I kissed her pretty round shoulders , her dark eyes , and black shining hair.
She mounted the stairs ; they were steep , having been made up of rough blocks of broken marble and the capital of a fallen pillar.
The colored lizards slipped away , startled , from before her feet , but she was not frightened at them.
Already she lifted her hand to pull the door-bell -- a hare 's foot fastened to a string formed the bell-handle of the imperial palace.
She paused for a moment -- of what might she be thinking ? Perhaps of the beautiful Christ-child , dressed in gold and silver , which was down below in the chapel , where the silver candlesticks gleamed so bright , and where her little friends sung the hymns in which she also could join ? I know not.
Presently she moved again -- she stumbled ; the earthen vessel fell from her head , and broke on the marble steps.
She burst into tears.
The beautiful daughter of the imperial palace wept over the worthless broken pitcher ; with her bare feet she stood there weeping , and dared not pull the string , the bell-rope of the imperial palace !"
There was once a man who had seven sons , and still he had no daughter , however much he wished for one.
At length his wife again gave him hope of a child , and when it came into the world it was a girl.
The joy was great , but the child was sickly and small , and had to be privately baptized on account of its weakness.
The father sent one of the boys in haste to the spring to fetch water for the baptism.
The other six went with him , and as each of them wanted to be first to fill it , the jug fell into the well.
There they stood and did not know what to do , and none of them dared to go home.
As they still did not return , the father grew impatient , and said , `` They have certainly forgotten it for some game , the wicked boys !"
He became afraid that the girl would have to die without being baptized , and in his anger cried , `` I wish the boys were all turned into ravens"
Hardly was the word spoken before he heard a whirring of wings over his head in the air , looked up and saw seven coal-black ravens flying away.
The parents could not recall the curse , and however sad they were at the loss of their seven sons , they still to some extent comforted themselves with their dear little daughter , who soon grew strong and every day became more beautiful.
For a long time she did not know that she had had brothers , for her parents were careful not to mention them before her , but one day she accidentally heard some people saying of herself , `` that the girl was certainly beautiful , but that in reality she was to blame for the misfortune which had befallen her seven brothers"
Then she was much troubled , and went to her father and mother and asked if it was true that she had had brothers , and what had become of them ? The parents now dared keep the secret no longer , but said that what had befallen her brothers was the will of Heaven , and that her birth had only been the innocent cause.
But the maiden took it to heart daily , and thought she must deliver her brothers.
She had no rest or peace until she set out secretly , and went forth into the wide world to trace out her brothers and set them free , let it cost what it might.
She took nothing with her but a little ring belonging to her parents as a keepsake , a loaf of bread against hunger , a little pitcher of water against thirst , and a little chair as a provision against weariness.
And now she went continually onwards , far , far to the very end of the world.
Then she came to the sun , but it was too hot and terrible , and devoured little children.
Hastily she ran away , and ran to the moon , but it was far too cold , and also awful and malicious , and when it saw the child , it said , `` I smell , I smell the flesh of men"
On this she ran swiftly away , and came to the stars , which were kind and good to her , and each of them sat on its own particular little chair.
But the morning star arose , and gave her the drumstick of a chicken , and said , `` If you thou hast not that drumstick thou canst not open the Glass mountain , and in the Glass mountain are thy brothers"
The maiden took the drumstick , wrapped it carefully in a cloth , and went onwards again until she came to the Glass mountain.
The door was shut , and she thought she would take out the drumstick ; but when she undid the cloth , it was empty , and she had lost the good star 's present.
What was she now to do ? She wished to rescue her brothers , and had no key to the Glass mountain.
The good sister took a knife , cut off one of her little fingers , put it in the door , and succeeded in opening it.
When she had gone inside , a little dwarf came to meet her , who said , `` My child , what are you looking for ?"
`` I am looking for my brothers , the seven ravens ,"
she replied.
The dwarf said , `` The lord ravens are not at home , but if you will wait here until they come , step in"
Thereupon the little dwarf carried the ravens ' dinner in , on seven little plates , and in seven little glasses , and the little sister ate a morsel from each plate , and from each little glass she took a sip , but in the last little glass she dropped the ring which she had brought away with her.
Suddenly she heard a whirring of wings and a rushing through the air , and then the little dwarf said , `` Now the lord ravens are flying home"
Then they came , and wanted to eat and drink , and looked for their little plates and glasses.
Then said one after the other , `` Who has eaten something from my plate ? Who has drunk out of my little glass ? It was a human mouth"
And when the seventh came to the bottom of the glass , the ring rolled against his mouth.
Then he looked at it , and saw that it was a ring belonging to his father and mother , and said , `` God grant that our sister may be here , and then we shall be free"
When the maiden , who was standing behind the door watching , heard that wish , she came forth , and on this all the ravens were restored to their human form again.
And they embraced and kissed each other , and went joyfully home"
`` I looked through the windows of an editor 's house ,"
said the Moon.
`` It was somewhere in Germany.
I saw handsome furniture , many books , and a chaos of newspapers.
Several young men were present : the editor himself stood at his desk , and two little books , both by young authors , were to be noticed.
` This one has been sent to me , ' said he.
` I have not read it yet ; what think _ you _ of the contents ? ' ` Oh , ' said the person addressed -- he was a poet himself -- ` it is good enough ; a little broad , certainly ; but , you see , the author is still young.
The verses might be better , to be sure ; the thoughts are sound , though there is certainly a good deal of commonplace among them.
But what will you have ? You ca n't be always getting something new.
That he 'll turn out anything great I do n't believe , but you may safely praise him.
He is well read , a remarkable Oriental scholar , and has a good judgment.
It was he who wrote that nice review of my ` Reflections on Domestic Life.
' We must be lenient towards the young man.
'"
` But he is a complete hack ! ' objected another of the gentlemen.
` Nothing is worse in poetry than mediocrity , and he certainly does not go beyond this.
'"
` Poor fellow , ' observed a third , ` and his aunt is so happy about him.
It was she , Mr.
Editor , who got together so many subscribers for your last translation.
'"
` Ah , the good woman ! Well , I have noticed the book briefly.
Undoubted talent -- a welcome offering -- a flower in the garden of poetry -- prettily brought out -- and so on.
But this other book -- I suppose the author expects me to purchase it ? I hear it is praised.
He has genius , certainly ; do n't you think so ? '"
` Yes , all the world declares as much , ' replied the poet , ` but it has turned out rather wildly.
The punctuation of the book , in particular , is very eccentric.
'"
` It will be good for him if we pull him to pieces , and anger him a little , otherwise he will get too good an opinion of himself.
'"
` But that would be unfair , ' objected the fourth.
` Let us not carp at little faults , but rejoice over the real and abundant good that we find here : he surpasses all the rest.
'"
` Not so.
If he is a true genius , he can bear the sharp voice of censure.
There are people enough to praise him.
Do n't let us quite turn his head.
'"
` Decided talent , ' wrote the editor , ` with the usual carelessness.
That he can write incorrect verses may be seen in page 25 , where there are two false quantities.
We recommend him to study the ancients , etc.
' `` I went away ,"
continued the Moon , `` and looked through the windows in the aunt 's house.
There sat the be-praised poet , the _ tame _ one ; all the guests paid homage to him , and he was happy.
`` I sought the other poet out , the _ wild _ one ; him also I found in a great assembly at his patron 's , where the tame poet 's book was being discussed"
` I shall read yours also , ' said Maecenas ; ` but to speak honestly -- you know I never hide my opinion from you -- I do n't expect much from it , for you are much too wild , too fantastic.
But it must be allowed that , as a man , you are highly respectable.
' `` A young girl sat in a corner ; and she read in a book these words :"
` In the dust lies genius and glory , But ev ` ry-day talent will _ pay _.
It 's only the old , old story , But the piece is repeated each day.
'"
There was once on a time a King who had three sons , of whom two were clever and wise , but the third did not speak much , and was simple , and was called the Simpleton.
When the King had become old and weak , and was thinking of his end , he did not know which of his sons should inherit the kingdom after him.
Then he said to them , `` Go forth , and he who brings me the most beautiful carpet shall be King after my death"
And that there should be no dispute amongst them , he took them outside his castle , blew three feathers in the air , and said , `` You shall go as they fly"
One feather flew to the east , the other to the west , but the third flew straight up and did not fly far , but soon fell to the ground.
And now one brother went to the right , and the other to the left , and they mocked Simpleton , who was forced to stay where the third feather had fallen.
He sat down and was sad , then all at once he saw that there was a trap-door close by the feather.
He raised it up , found some steps , and went down them , and then he came to another door , knocked at it , and heard somebody inside calling , `` Little green maiden small , Hopping hither and thither ; Hop to the door , And quickly see who is there"
The door opened , and he saw a great , fat toad sitting , and round about her a crowd of little toads.
The fat toad asked what he wanted ? He answered , `` I should like to have the prettiest and finest carpet in the world"
Then she called a young one and said , `` Little green maiden small , Hopping hither and thither , Hop quickly and bring me The great box here"
The young toad brought the box , and the fat toad opened it , and gave Simpleton a carpet out of it , so beautiful and so fine , that on the earth above , none could have been woven like it.
Then he thanked her , and ascended again.
The two others had , however , looked on their youngest brother as so stupid that they believed he would find and bring nothing at all.
`` Why should we give ourselves a great deal of trouble to search ?"
said they , and got some coarse handkerchiefs from the first shepherds ' wives whom they met , and carried them home to the King.
At the same time Simpleton also came back , and brought his beautiful carpet , and when the King saw it he was astonished , and said , `` If justice be done , the kingdom belongs to the youngest"
But the two others let their father have no peace , and said that it was impossible that Simpleton , who in everything lacked understanding , should be King , and entreated him to make a new agreement with them.
Then the father said , `` He who brings me the most beautiful ring shall inherit the kingdom ,"
and led the three brothers out , and blew into the air three feathers , which they were to follow.
Those of the two eldest again went east and west , and Simpleton 's feather flew straight up , and fell down near the door into the earth.
Then he went down again to the fat toad , and told her that he wanted the most beautiful ring.
She at once ordered her great box to be brought , and gave him a ring out of it , which sparkled with jewels , and was so beautiful that no goldsmith on earth would have been able to make it.
The two eldest laughed at Simpleton for going to seek a golden ring.
They gave themselves no trouble , but knocked the nails out of an old carriage-ring , and took it to the King ; but when Simpleton produced his golden ring , his father again said , `` The kingdom belongs to him"
The two eldest did not cease from tormenting the King until he made a third condition , and declared that the one who brought the most beautiful woman home , should have the kingdom.
He again blew the three feathers into the air , and they flew as before.
Then Simpleton without more ado went down to the fat toad , and said , `` I am to take home the most beautiful woman !"
`` Oh ,"
answered the toad , `` the most beautiful woman ! She is not at hand at the moment , but still thou shalt have her"
She gave him a yellow turnip which had been hollowed out , to which six mice were harnessed.
Then Simpleton said quite mournfully , `` What am I to do with that ?"
The toad answered , `` Just put one of my little toads into it"
Then he seized one at random out of the circle , and put her into the yellow coach , but hardly was she seated inside it than she turned into a wonderfully beautiful maiden , and the turnip into a coach , and the six mice into horses.
So he kissed her , and drove off quickly with the horses , and took her to the King.
His brothers came afterwards ; they had given themselves no trouble at all to seek beautiful girls , but had brought with them the first peasant women they chanced to meet.
When the King saw them he said , `` After my death the kingdom belongs to my youngest son"
But the two eldest deafened the King 's ears afresh with their clamor , `` We can not consent to Simpleton 's being King ,"
and demanded that the one whose wife could leap through a ring which hung in the center of the hall should have the preference.
They thought , `` The peasant women can do that easily ; they are strong enough , but the delicate maiden will jump herself to death"
The aged King agreed likewise to this.
Then the two peasant women jumped , and jumped through the ring , but were so stout that they fell , and their coarse arms and legs broke in two.
And then the pretty maiden whom Simpleton had brought with him , sprang , and sprang through as lightly as a deer , and all opposition had to cease.
So he received the crown , and has ruled wisely for a length of time"
A countryman was once going out to plough with a pair of oxen.
When he got to the field , both the animals ' horns began to grow , and went on growing , and when he wanted to go home they were so big that the oxen could not get through the gateway for them.
By good luck a butcher came by just then , and he delivered them over to him , and made the bargain in this way , that he should take the butcher a measure of turnip-seed , and then the butcher was to count him out a Brabant thaler for every seed.
I call that well sold ! The peasant now went home , and carried the measure of turnip-seed to him on his back.
On the way , however , he lost one seed out of the bag.
The butcher paid him justly as agreed on , and if the peasant had not lost the seed , he would have had one thaler the more.
In the meantime , when he went on his way back , the seed had grown into a tree which reached up to the sky.
Then thought the peasant , `` As thou hast the chance , thou must just see what the angels are doing up there above , and for once have them before thine eyes"
So he climbed up , and saw that the angels above were threshing oats , and he looked on.
While he was thus watching them , he observed that the tree on which he was standing , was beginning to totter ; he peeped down , and saw that someone was just going to cut it down.
`` If I were to fall down from hence it would be a bad thing ,"
thought he , and in his necessity he did not know how to save himself better than by taking the chaff of the oats which lay there in heaps , and twisting a rope of it.
He likewise snatched a hoe and a flail which were lying about in heaven , and let himself down by the rope.
But he came down on the earth exactly in the middle of a deep , deep hole.
So it was a real piece of luck that he had brought the hoe , for he hoed himself a flight of steps with it , and mounted up , and took the flail with him as a token of his truth , so that no one could have any doubt of his story"
There was once on a time a far-sighted , crafty peasant whose tricks were much talked about.
The best story is , however , how he once got hold of the Devil , and made a fool of him.
The peasant had one day been working in his field , and as twilight had set in , was making ready for the journey home , when he saw a heap of burning coals in the middle of his field , and when , full of astonishment , he went up to it , a little black devil was sitting on the live coals.
`` Thou dost indeed sit upon a treasure !"
said the peasant.
`` Yes , in truth ,"
replied the Devil , `` on a treasure which contains more gold and silver than thou hast ever seen in thy life !"
`` The treasure lies in my field and belongs to me ,"
said the peasant.
`` It is thine ,"
answered the Devil , `` if thou wilt for two years give me the half of everything thy field produces.
Money I have enough of , but I have a desire for the fruits of the earth"
The peasant agreed to the bargain.
`` In order , however , that no dispute may arise about the division ,"
said he , `` everything that is above ground shall belong to thee , and what is under the earth to me"
The Devil was quite satisfied with that , but the cunning peasant had sown turnips.
Now when the time for harvest came , the Devil appeared and wanted to take away his crop ; but he found nothing but the yellow withered leaves , while the peasant , full of delight , was digging up his turnips.
`` Thou hast had the best of it for once ,"
said the Devil , `` but the next time that wo n't do.
What grows above ground shall be thine , and what is under it , mine"
`` I am willing ,"
replied the peasant ; but when the time came to sow , he did not again sow turnips , but wheat.
The grain became ripe , and the peasant went into the field and cut the full stalks down to the ground.
When the Devil came , he found nothing but the stubble , and went away in a fury down into a cleft in the rocks.
`` That is the way to cheat the Devil ,"
said the peasant , and went and fetched away the treasure"
by Brothers Grimm A peasant had a faithful horse which had grown old and could do no more work , so his master would no longer give him anything to eat and said , `` I can certainly make no more use of thee , but still I mean well by thee ; if thou provest thyself still strong enough to bring me a lion here , I will maintain thee , but now take thyself away out of my stable ,"
and with that he chased him into the open country.
The horse was sad , and went to the forest to seek a little protection there from the weather.
Then the fox met him and said , `` Why dost thou hang thy head so , and go about all alone ?"
`` Alas ,"
replied the horse , `` avarice and fidelity do not dwell together in one house.
My master has forgotten what services I have performed for him for so many years , and because I can no longer plough well , he will give me no more food , and has driven me out"
`` Without giving thee a chance ?"
asked the fox.
`` The chance was a bad one.
He said , if I were still strong enough to bring him a lion , he would keep me , but he well knows that I can not do that"
The fox said , `` I will help thee , just lay thyself down , stretch thyself out , as if thou wert dead , and do not stir"
The horse did as the fox desired , and the fox went to the lion , who had his den not far off , and said , `` A dead horse is lying outside there , just come with me , thou canst have a rich meal"
The lion went with him , and when they were both standing by the horse the fox said , `` After all , it is not very comfortable for thee here I tell thee what I will fasten it to thee by the tail , and then thou canst drag it into thy cave , and devour it in peace"
This advice pleased the lion : he lay down , and in order that the fox might tie the horse fast to him , he kept quite quiet.
But the fox tied the lion 's legs together with the horse 's tail , and twisted and fastened all so well and so strongly that no strength could break it.
When he had finished his work , he tapped the horse on the shoulder and said , `` Pull , white horse , pull"
Then up sprang the horse at once , and drew the lion away with him.
The lion began to roar so that all the birds in the forest flew out in terror , but the horse let him roar , and drew him and dragged him over the country to his master 's door.
When the master saw the lion , he was of a better mind , and said to the horse , `` Thou shalt stay with me and fare well ,"
and he gave him plenty to eat until he died"
There were once a cock and a hen who wanted to take a journey together.
So the cock built a beautiful carriage , which had four red wheels , and harnessed four mice to it.
The hen seated herself in it with the cock , and they drove away together.
Not long afterwards they met a cat who said , `` Where are you going ?"
The cock replied , `` We are going to the house of Herr Korbes"
`` Take me with you ,"
said the cat.
The cock answered , `` Most willingly , get up behind , lest you fall off in front.
Take great care not to dirty my little red wheels.
And you little wheels , roll on , and you little mice pipe out , as we go forth on our way to the house of Herr Korbes"
After this came a millstone , then an egg , then a duck , then a pin , and at last a needle , who all seated themselves in the carriage , and drove with them.
When , however , they reached the house of Herr Korbes , Herr Korbes was not there.
The mice drew the carriage into the barn , the hen flew with the cock upon a perch.
The cat sat down by the hearth , the duck on the well-pole.
The egg rolled itself into a towel , the pin stuck itself into the chair-cushion , the needle jumped on to the bed in the middle of the pillow , and the millstone laid itself over the door.
Then Herr Korbes came home , went to the hearth , and was about to light the fire , when the cat threw a quantity of ashes in his face.
He ran into the kitchen in a great hurry to wash it off , and the duck splashed some water in his face.
He wanted to dry it with the towel , but the egg rolled up against him , broke , and glued up his eyes.
He wanted to rest , and sat down in the chair , and then the pin pricked him.
He fell in a passion , and threw himself on his bed , but as soon as he laid his head on the pillow , the needle pricked him , so that he screamed aloud , and was just going to run out into the wide world in his rage , but when he came to the house-door , the millstone leapt down and struck him dead.
Herr Korbes must have been a very wicked man !"
AS o ` er their wine one day , three gossips sat , Discoursing various pranks in pleasant chat , Each had a loving friend , and two of these Most clearly managed matters at their ease.
SAID one , a princely husband I have got.
A better in the world there 's surely not ; With him I can adjust as humor fits , No need to rise at early dawn , like cits , person_1 prove to him that two and three make four , Or ask his leave to ope or shut the door.
UPON my word , replied another fair , If he were mine , I openly declare , person_1 judge from what so pleasantly you say , I 'd make a present of him new-year 's day.
For pleasure never gives me full delight , Unless a little pain the bliss invite.
No doubt your husband moves as he is led ; Thank heav ` n a different mortal claims my bed ; person_1 take him in , great nicety we need ; person_2 howsoe'er , at times I can succeed ; The satisfaction doubly then is felt : -- In fond emotion bosoms freely melt.
With neither of you , husband or gallant , Would I exchange , though these so much you vaunt.
ON this , the third with candor interfer 'd ; She thought that oft the god of love appear 'd , Good husbands playfully to fret and vex , person_3metimes to rally couples : then perplex ; person_2 warmer as the conversation grew , She , anxious that each disputant might view Herself victorious , -LRB- or believe it so , -RRB- Exclaim 'd , if either of you wish to show Who 's in the right , with argument have done , person_5 let us practice some new scheme of fun , person_1 dupe our husbands ; she who do n't succeed Shall pay a forfeit ; all replied , `` Agreed"
person_2 then , continued she , we ought to take An oath , that we will full discov ` ry make , person_1 one another of the various facts , Without disguising even trifling acts.
person_5 then , good upright Macae shall decide ; Thus things arrang 'd , the ladies homeward plied.
SHE , ` mong the three , who felt the most constraint Ador 'd a youth , contemporaries paint , Well made and handsome , but with beardless chin , Which led the pair a project to begin ; For yet no opportunity they 'd found , T ' enjoy their wishes , save by stealth around ; Most ardently she sought to be at ease , person_5 'twas agreed the lucky thought to seize That like a chambermaid he should be dress 'd , person_5 then proceed to execute the jest , Attend upon the wily , wedded pair , person_5 offer services with modest air person_5 downcast eyes ; the husband on her leer 'd , person_5 in her favor prepossess 'd appear 'd , In hopes one day , to find those pleasing charms Resign 'd in secret to his longing arms.
Such pretty cheeks and sparkling eyes he thought , Had ne'er till then his roving fancy caught ; The girl was hir 'd , but seemingly with pain , Since PRUDENCE ultimately might complain , That -LRB- maid and master both so very young -RRB- ` Twould not be wonderful if things went wrong.
AT first the husband inattention show 'd , person_5 scarcely on the maid a look bestow 'd ; person_2 presently he chang 'd his conduct quite , person_5 presents gave , with promises not slight ; At length the servant feign 'd to lend an ear , person_5 anxious seem 'd obliging to appear.
THE trap our cunning lovers having laid , One eve this message brought the smiling maid ; person_4 lady , sir , is ill , and rest requires , person_1 sleep alone to-night she much desires.
person_1 grant the master 's wish the girl was led , person_5 they together hurried off to bed.
THE husband ` tween the sheets himself had plac 'd ; The nymph was in her petticoat , unlac 'd ; When suddenly appear 'd the wily wife , person_5 promis 'd harmony was turn 'd to strife.
Are these your freaks , cried she with mark 'd surprise ; Your usual dish it seems then do n't suffice ; You want , indeed , to have some nicer fare ? A little sooner , by the saints I swear , You 'd me a pretty trick , ` tis clear , have shown , person_5 doubtless , then , tit bits to keep been prone.
This , howsoe'er , to get you 're not design 'd , person_3 elsewhere you may try what you can find.
person_5 as to you , miss Prettyface , you jade , Good heav ` ns ! to think a paltry servant maid Should rival me ? I 'll beat you black and blue ! The bread I eat , indeed , must be for you ? person_2 I know better , and indeed am clear , Not one around will fancy I appear person_3 void of charms , so faded , wither 'd , lost , That I should out of doors at once be tost ; person_2 I will manage matters : -- I design This girl no other bed shall have than mine ; Then who so bold to touch her there will dare ? Come , Miss , let 's to my room at once repair ; Away -- your things to-morrow you can seek ; If scandal ` twould spread around , I 'd wreak person_4 vengeance instantly , and turn you out ; person_2 I am lenient , and desire no rout ; Perhaps your ruin may be sav 'd by care ; person_3 night and day your company I 'll share ; No more my bosom then will feel dismay , For I shall see that you no frolicks play.
ON this the trembling girl , o ` ercome with fears ; Held down her head and seem 'd to hide her tears ; Pick 'd up her clothes and quickly stole away , As if afraid her mistress more might say ; person_5 hop 'd to act the maid while person_3l gave light , person_2 play at ease the fond gallant at night ; At once she fill 'd two places in the house , person_5 thought in both the husband she should chouse , Who bless 'd his stars that he 'd escap 'd so well , person_5 sneak 'd alone to rest within his cell , While our gay , am ` rous pair advantage took , person_1 play at will , and ev ` ry solace hook , Convinc 'd most thoroughly , once lovers kiss 'd , That OPPORTUNITY should n ` er be miss 'd.
Here ends the trick our wily gossip play 'd ; person_2 now let 's see the plot another laid.
THE second dame , whose husband was so meek , That only from her lips the truth he 'd seek , When seated with him ` neath a pear tree 's shade , Contriv 'd at ease and her arrangement made.
The story I shall presently relate ; The butler , strong , well dress 'd , and full of prate : Who often made the other servants trot , Stood near when madam hit upon her plot , person_1 whom she said , I wish the fruit to taste ; On which the man prepar 'd with ev ` ry haste , person_1 climb the tree , and off the produce shook ; person_2 while above , the fellow gave a look Upon the ground below , and feign 'd he saw The spouse and wife -- do more than kiss and paw : The servant rubb 'd his eyes , as if in doubt , person_5 cried : why truly , sir , if you 're so stout , That you must revel ` mid your lady 's charms , Pray elsewhere take her to your longing arms , Where you at ease may frolick hours or days , Without my witnessing your loving ways ; Indeed , I 'm quite surprised at what I spy In publick , ` neath a tree such pranks to try ! person_5 , if you do n't a servant 's presence heed , With decency howe'er you should proceed.
What , still go on ? for shame , I say , for shame ! Pray wait till by and by ; you 're much to blame ; Besides , the nights are long enough you 'll find ; Heav ` n genial joys for privacy design 'd ; person_5 why this place , when you 've nice chambers got ? What , cried the lady , says this noisy sot ? He surely dreams ; Where can he learn these tales ? Come down ; let 's see what ` tis the fellow ails.
Down William came.
How ? said the master , how ? Are we at play ? William Not now , sir , no , not now.
Husband Why , when then , friend ? William While I was in the tree , Alive , sir , flay me , if I did not see You on the verdant lawn my lady lay , person_5 kiss , and toy , and other frolicks play.
Wife ` Twere surely better if thou held ` st thy tongue , Or thou ` lt a beating get before ` tis long.
Husband No , no , my dear , he 's mad , and I design The fellow in a madhouse to confine.
William Is ` t folly , pray , to see what we behold ? Wife What hast thou seen ? William What I 've already told : -- person_4 master and yourself at Cupid 's game , Or else the tree 's enchanted I proclaim.
Wife ENCHANTED ! nonsense ; such a sight to see ! Husband person_1 know the truth myself , I 'll climb the tree , Then you the fact will quickly from me learn ; We may believe what we ourselves discern.
SOON as the master they above descried , person_5 that below our pair he sharply eyed , The butler took the lady in his arms , person_5 grew at once familiar with her charms ; At sight of this the husband gave a yell : Made haste to reach the ground , and nearly fell ; Such liberties he wish 'd at once to stop , Since what he 'd seen had nearly made him drop.
How ! how ! -- cried he : -- what , e ` en before my sight ? What can you mean ? said she without affright.
Husband DAR ` ST thou to ask again ? Wife AND why not , pray ? Husband FINE , pretty doings ! -- Presently you 'll say ; That what I 've seen ` tis folly to believe.
Wife person_1o much is this : -- such accusations grieve.
Husband Thou did ` st most clearly suffer his embrace.
Wife I ? WHY , you dream ! Husband This seems a curious case.
MY reason 's flown ' ! or have I lost my eyes ? Wife CAN you suppose my character I prize person_3 very little , that these pranks I 'd play Before your face , when I might ev ` ry day Find minutes to divert myself at will , person_5 -LRB- if lik 'd such frolicks -RRB- take my fill ? Husband I KNOW not what to think nor what to do ; P ` rhaps this same tree can tricks at will pursue ; Let 's see again ; aloft he went once more , person_5 William acted as he 'd done before ; person_2 now the husband saw the playful squeeze ; Without emotion , and returned at ease.
person_1 find the cause , said he , no longer try , The tree 's enchanted , we may well rely.
SINCE , that 's the fact , replied the cunning jade ; person_1 burn it , quickly William seek fort aid ; The tree accurst no longer shall remain ; Her will the servant wish 'd not to restrain , person_2 soon some workmen brought , who felled the tree ; person_5 wondered what the fault our fair could see.
Down hew it , cried the lady , that 's your task ; More concerns you not ; folly ` tis to ask.
OUR second gossip thus obtained success ; person_2 now the third : we 'll see if she had less : person_1 female friends she often visits paid , person_5 various pastimes there had daily play 'd ; A leering lover who was weary grown , Desired ONE night she 'd meet him quite alone.
TWO , if you will , replied the smiling fair ; A trifle ` tis you ask , and I 'll repair Where'er you wish , and we 'll recline at ease ; person_4 husband I can manage , if I please , While thus engag 'd.
-- The parties soon agreed ; person_2 still the lady for her wits had need , Since her dear man from home but rarely went , No pardons sought at Rome , but was content With what he nearer got , while his sweet wife More fondness mark 'd for gratifying life , person_5 ever anxious , warmest zeal to show , Was always wishing distant scenes to know ; As pilgrim oft she 'd trod a foreign road , person_2 now desir 'd those ancient ways t ` explode ; A plan more rare and difficult she sought , person_5 round her toe our wily dame bethought , person_1 tie a pack-thread , fasten 'd to the door , Which open 'd to the street : then feign 'd to snore Beside her husband , person_0 Berlinguier , -LRB- person_3 , usually , they nam 'd her wedded dear.
-RRB- HOWE ` ER , so cunningly with him she dealt , That person_0 turn 'd , and soon the pack-thread felt , Which rais 'd distrust , and led him to suspect person_3me bad design the thread was meant t ` effect.
A LITTLE time , as if asleep , he lay Considering how to act , or what to say ; Then rose , -LRB- his spouse believing not awake , -RRB- person_5 softly treading , lest the room should shake ; The pack-thread follow 'd to the outer door , person_5 thence concluded -LRB- what he might deplore , -RRB- That his dear partner from her faith would stray , person_5 some gallant that night design 'd to play The lover 's part and draw the secret clue , When she would rise , and with him freaks pursue , While he -LRB- good husband ! -RRB- quietly in bed Might sleep , not dreaming that his wife had fled.
FOR otherwise , what use such pains to take ? A visit cuckoldom , perhaps , might make ; An honor that he 'd willingly decline ; On which he studied how to countermine ; person_5 like a sentinel mov 'd to and fro ' , person_1 watch if any one would thither go person_1 pull the string , that he could see with ease , person_5 then he 'd instantly the culprit seize.
THE reader will perceive , we may suppose , Besides the entrance which the husband chose , On t ` other side a door , where our gallant Could enter readily , as he might want , person_5 there the spark a chambermaid let in : -- Oft servants prone are found a bribe to win.
WHILE Berlinguier thus watch 'd around and round ; The friends with one another pleasures found ; person_2 heav ` n alone knows how nor what they were : -- No fact transpir 'd save all was free from care ; person_3 well the servant kept the careful watch , That not a chance was given the pair to catch : THE spark at dawn the lady left alone , person_5 ere the husband came the bird was flown ; Then person_0 , weary , took his place again , Complaining , that he 'd felt such racking pain , person_5 dreading , lest alarms her breast should seize , Within another room he 'd sought for ease.
Two days had pass 'd , when madam thought once more , person_1 set the thread , as she had done before ; He left the bed , pretending he was sick , Resumed his post ; again the lover came , person_5 , with my lady , play 'd the former game.
THE scheme so well succeeded , that the pair Thrice wish 'd to try the wily pack-thread snare ; The husband with the cholic mov 'd away , His place the bold gallant resum 'd till day.
AT length their ardor ` gan , it seems , to cool , person_5 , they no longer tried to fool ; 'Twas time to seek the myst ` ry of the plot , Since , to three acts , the comedy was got.
AT midnight , when the spark had left the bed ; A servant , by his orders , drew the thread ; On whom the husband , without fear , laid hold , person_5 with him enter 'd like a soldier bold , Not then supposing he 'd a valet seiz 'd ; Well tim 'd it prov 'd , howe'er ; -- the lady pleas 'd Her voice to raise , on hearing what was said , person_5 through the house confusion quickly spread.
THE valet now before them bent the knee , person_5 openly declar 'd , he came to see The chambermaid , whom he was wont to greet , person_5 by the thread to rouse when time to meet : ARE these your knavish tricks , replied the dame , With eyes upon her maid that darted flame ; When I by chance observ 'd about your toe , A thread one night , I then resolv 'd to know Your scheme in full , and round my own I tied A clue , on which I thoroughly relied , person_1 catch this gay gallant , that you pretend Your husband will become , I apprehend.
Be that as ` twill , to-night from hence you go.
person_4 dear , said Berlinguier , I 'd fain say no ; Let things remain until to-morrow , pray person_5 then my lady presently gave way.
A fortune person_0 on the girl bestow 'd ; The like our valet to his master ow 'd ; person_1 church the happy couple smiling went : -- They 'd known each other long , and were content.
THUS ended then , the third and last amour ; The trio hasten 'd Macae to implore , person_1 say which gain 'd the bet , who soon replied : -- I find it , friends , not easy to decide.
THE case hangs up , and there will long remain ; ` Tis often thus when justice we 'd obtain :"
A soothsayer when on his deathbed wrote out the horoscope of his second son , whose name was person_1 , and bequeathed it to him as his only property , leaving the whole of his estate to his eldest son.
The second son thought over the horoscope , and said to himself : `` Alas ! am I born to this only in the world ? The sayings of my father never failed.
I have seen them prove true to the last word while he was living ; and how has he fixed my horoscope ! ` FROM MY BIRTH POVERTY ! ' Nor is that my only fate.
` FOR TEN YEARS , IMPRISONMENT ' -- a fate harder than poverty ; and what comes next ? ` DEATH ON THE SEA-SHORE ' ; which means that I must die away from home , far from friends and relatives on a sea-coast.
Now comes the most curious part of the horoscope , that I am to ` HAVE SOME HAPPINESS AFTERWARDS ! ' What this happiness is , is an enigma to me"
Thus thought he , and after all the funeral obsequies of his father were over , took leave of his elder brother , and started for Benares.
He went by the middle of the Deccan , avoiding both the coasts , and went on journeying and journeying for weeks and months , till at last he reached the Vindhya mountains.
While passing that desert he had to journey for a couple of days through a sandy plain , with no signs of life or vegetation.
The little store of provision with which he was provided for a couple of days , at last was exhausted.
The chombu , which he carried always full , filling it with the sweet water from the flowing rivulet or plenteous tank , he had exhausted in the heat of the desert.
There was not a morsel in his hand to eat ; nor a drop of water to drink.
Turn his eyes wherever he might he found a vast desert , out of which he saw no means of escape.
Still he thought within himself , `` Surely my father 's prophecy never proved untrue.
I must survive this calamity to find my death on some sea-coast"
So thought he , and this thought gave him strength of mind to walk fast and try to find a drop of water somewhere to slake his dry throat.
At last he succeeded ; heaven threw in his way a ruined well.
He thought he could collect some water if he let down his chombu with the string that he always carried noosed to the neck of it.
Accordingly he let it down ; it went some way and stopped , and the following words came from the well : `` Oh , relieve me ! I am the king of tigers , dying here of hunger.
For the last three days I have had nothing.
Fortune has sent you here.
If you assist me now you will find a sure help in me throughout your life.
Do not think that I am a beast of prey.
When you have become my deliverer I will never touch you.
Pray , kindly lift me up"
person_1 thought : `` Shall I take him out or not ? If I take him out he may make me the first morsel of his hungry mouth.
No ; that he will not do.
For my father 's prophecy never came untrue.
I must die on a sea coast , and not by a tiger"
Thus thinking , he asked the tiger-king to hold tight to the vessel , which he accordingly did , and he lifted him up slowly.
The tiger reached the top of the well and felt himself on safe ground.
True to his word , he did no harm to person_1.
On the other hand , he walked round his patron three times , and standing before him , humbly spoke the following words : `` My life-giver , my benefactor ! I shall never forget this day , when I regained my life through your kind hands.
In return for this kind assistance I pledge my oath to stand by you in all calamities.
Whenever you are in any difficulty just think of me.
I am there with you ready to oblige you by all the means that I can.
To tell you briefly how I came in here : Three days ago I was roaming in yonder forest , when I saw a goldsmith passing through it.
I chased him.
He , finding it impossible to escape my claws , jumped into this well , and is living to this moment in the very bottom of it.
I also jumped in , but found myself on the first ledge of the well ; he is on the last and fourth ledge.
In the second lives a serpent half-famished with hunger.
On the third lies a rat , also half-famished , and when you again begin to draw water these may request you first to release them.
In the same way the goldsmith also may ask you.
I beg you , as your bosom friend , never assist that wretched man , though he is your relation as a human being.
Goldsmiths are never to be trusted.
You can place more faith in me , a tiger , though I feast sometimes upon men , in a serpent , whose sting makes your blood cold the very next moment , or in a rat , which does a thousand pieces of mischief in your house.
But never trust a goldsmith.
Do not release him ; and if you do , you shall surely repent of it one day or other"
Thus advising , the hungry tiger went away without waiting for an answer.
person_1 thought several times of the eloquent way in which the tiger spoke , and admired his fluency of speech.
But still his thirst was not quenched.
So he let down his vessel again , which was now caught hold of by the serpent , who addressed him thus : `` Oh , my protector ! Lift me up.
I am the king of serpents , and the son of Adisesha , who is now pining away in agony for my disappearance.
Release me now.
I shall ever remain your servant , remember your assistance , and help you throughout life in all possible ways.
Oblige me : I am dying"
person_1 , calling again to mind the `` DEATH ON THE SEA-SHORE"
of the prophecy lifted him up.
He , like the tiger-king , walked round him thrice , and prostrating himself before him spoke thus : `` Oh , my life-giver , my father , for so I must call you , as you have given me another birth.
I was three days ago basking myself in the morning sun , when I saw a rat running before me.
I chased him.
He fell into this well.
I followed him , but instead of falling on the third storey where he is now lying , I fell into the second.
I am going away now to see my father.
Whenever you are in any difficulty just think of me.
I will be there by your side to assist you by all possible means"
So saying , the Nagaraja glided away in zigzag movements , and was out of sight in a moment.
The poor son of the Soothsayer , who was now almost dying of thirst , let down his vessel for a third time.
The rat caught hold of it , and without discussing he lifted up the poor animal at once.
But it would not go away without showing its gratitude : `` Oh , life of my life ! My benefactor ! I am the king of rats.
Whenever you are in any calamity just think of me.
I will come to you , and assist you.
My keen ears overheard all that the tiger-king told you about the goldsmith , who is in the fourth storey.
It is nothing but a sad truth that goldsmiths ought never to be trusted.
Therefore , never assist him as you have done to us all.
And if you do , you will suffer for it.
I am hungry ; let me go for the present"
Thus taking leave of his benefactor , the rat , too , ran away.
person_1 for a while thought upon the repeated advice given by the three animals about releasing the goldsmith : `` What wrong would there be in my assisting him ? Why should I not release him also ?"
So thinking to himself , person_1 let down the vessel again.
The goldsmith caught hold of it , and demanded help.
The Soothsayer 's son had no time to lose ; he was himself dying of thirst.
Therefore he lifted the goldsmith up , who now began his story.
`` Stop for a while ,"
said person_1 , and after quenching his thirst by letting down his vessel for the fifth time , still fearing that some one might remain in the well and demand his assistance , he listened to the goldsmith , who began as follows : `` My dear friend , my protector , what a deal of nonsense these brutes have been talking to you about me ; I am glad you have not followed their advice.
I am just now dying of hunger.
Permit me to go away.
My name is Manikkasari.
I live in the East main street of person_0 , which is twenty kas to the south of this place , and so lies on your way when you return from Benares.
Do not forget to come to me and receive my kind remembrances of your assistance , on your way back to your country"
So saying , the goldsmith took his leave , and person_1 also pursued his way north after the above adventures.
He reached Benares , and lived there for more than ten years , and quite forgot the tiger , serpent , rat , and goldsmith.
After ten years of religious life , thoughts of home and of his brother rushed into his mind.
`` I have secured enough merit now by my religious observances.
Let me return home"
Thus thought person_1 within himself , and very soon he was on his way back to his country.
Remembering the prophecy of his father he returned by the same way by which he went to Benares ten years before.
While thus retracing his steps he reached the ruined well where he had released the three brute kings and the gold smith.
At once the old recollections rushed into his mind , and he thought of the tiger to test his fidelity.
Only a moment passed , and the tiger-king came running before him carrying a large crown in his mouth , the glitter of the diamonds of which for a time outshone even the bright rays of the sun.
He dropped the crown at his life-giver 's feet , and , putting aside all his pride , humbled himself like a pet cat to the strokes of his protector , and began in the following words : `` My life-giver ! How is it that you have forgotten me , your poor servant , for such a long time ? I am glad to find that I still occupy a corner in your mind.
I can never forget the day when I owed my life to your lotus hands.
I have several jewels with me of little value.
This crown , being the best of all , I have brought here as a single ornament of great value , which you can carry with you and dispose of in your own country"
person_1 looked at the crown , examined it over and over , counted and recounted the gems , and thought within himself that he would become the richest of men by separating the diamonds and gold , and selling them in his own country.
He took leave of the tiger-king , and after his disappearance thought of the kings of serpents and rats , who came in their turn with their presents , and after the usual greetings and exchange of words took their leave.
person_1 was extremely delighted at the faithfulness with which the brute beasts behaved , and went on his way to the south.
While going along he spoke to himself thus : `` These beasts have been very faithful in their assistance.
Much more , therefore , must Manikkasari be faithful.
I do not want anything from him now.
If I take this crown with me as it is , it occupies much space in my bundle.
It may also excite the curiosity of some robbers on the way.
I will go now to person_0 on my way.
Manikkasari requested me to see him without failure on my return journey.
I shall do so , and request him to have the crown melted , the diamonds and gold separated.
He must do that kindness at least for me.
I shall then roll up these diamonds and gold ball in my rags , and wend my way homewards"
Thus thinking and thinking , he reached person_0.
At once he inquired for the house of his goldsmith friend , and found him without difficulty.
Manikkasari was extremely delighted to find on his threshold him who ten years before , notwithstanding the advice repeatedly given him by the sage-looking tiger , serpent , and rat , had relieved him from the pit of death.
person_1 at once showed him the crown that he received from the tiger - king , told him how he got it , and requested his kind assistance to separate the gold and diamonds.
Manikkasari agreed to do so , and meanwhile asked his friend to rest himself for a while to have his bath and meals ; and person_1 , who was very observant of his religious ceremonies , went direct to the river to bathe.
How came the crown in the jaws of the tiger ? The king of person_0 had a week before gone with all his hunters on a hunting expedition.
All of a sudden the tiger-king started from the wood , seized the king , and vanished.
When the king 's attendants informed the prince about the death of his father he wept and wailed , and gave notice that he would give half of his kingdom to any one who should bring him news about the murderer of his father.
The goldsmith knew full well that it was a tiger that killed the king , and not any hunter 's hands , since he had heard from person_1 how he obtained the crown.
Still , he resolved to denounce person_1 as the king 's murderer , so , hiding the crown under his garments , he flew to the palace.
He went before the prince and informed him that the assassin was caught , and placed the crown before him.
The prince took it into his hands , examined it , and at once gave half the kingdom to Manikkasari , and then inquired about the murderer.
`` He is bathing in the river , and is of such and such appearance ,"
was the reply.
At once four armed soldiers flew to the river , and bound the poor Brahman hand and foot , while he , sitting in meditation , was without any knowledge of the fate that hung over him.
They brought person_1 to the presence of the prince , who turned his face away from the supposed murderer , and asked his soldiers to throw him into a dungeon.
In a minute , without knowing the cause , the poor Brahman found himself in the dark dungeon.
It was a dark cellar underground , built with strong stone walls , into which any criminal guilty of a capital offence was ushered to breathe his last there without food and drink.
Such was the cellar into which person_1 was thrust.
What were his thoughts when he reached that place ? `` It is of no use to accuse either the goldsmith or the prince now.
We are all the children of fate.
We must obey her commands.
This is but the first day of my father 's prophecy.
So far his statement is true.
But how am I going to pass ten years here ? Perhaps without anything to sustain life I may drag on my existence for a day or two.
But how pass ten years ? That can not be , and I must die.
Before death comes let me think of my faithful brute friends"
So pondered person_1 in the dark cell underground , and at that moment thought of his three friends.
The tiger-king , serpent-king , and rat - king assembled at once with their armies at a garden near the dungeon , and for a while did not know what to do.
They held their council , and decided to make an underground passage from the inside of a ruined well to the dungeon.
The rat raja issued an order at once to that effect to his army.
They , with their teeth , bored the ground a long way to the walls of the prison.
After reaching it they found that their teeth could not work on the hard stones.
The bandicoots were then specially ordered for the business ; they , with their hard teeth , made a small slit in the wall for a rat to pass and re-pass without difficulty.
Thus a passage was effected.
The rat raja entered first to condole with his protector on his misfortune , and undertook to supply his protector with provisions.
`` Whatever sweetmeats or bread are prepared in any house , one and all of you must try to bring whatever you can to our benefactor.
Whatever clothes you find hanging in a house , cut down , dip the pieces in water , and bring the wet bits to our benefactor.
He will squeeze them and gather water for drink ! and the bread and sweetmeats shall form his food"
Having issued these orders , the king of the rats took leave of person_1.
They , in obedience to their king 's order , continued to supply him with provisions and water.
The snake-king said : `` I sincerely condole with you in your calamity ; the tiger-king also fully sympathises with you , and wants me to tell you so , as he can not drag his huge body here as we have done with our small ones.
The king of the rats has promised to do his best to provide you with food.
We would now do what we can for your release.
From this day we shall issue orders to our armies to oppress all the subjects of this kingdom.
The deaths by snake-bite and tigers shall increase a hundredfold from this day , and day by day it shall continue to increase till your release.
Whenever you hear people near you , you had better bawl out so as to be heard by them : ` The wretched prince imprisoned me on the false charge of having killed his father , while it was a tiger that killed him.
From that day these calamities have broken out in his dominions.
If I were released I would save all by my powers of healing poisonous wounds and by incantations.
' Some one may report this to the king , and if he knows it , you will obtain your liberty"
Thus comforting his protector in trouble , he advised him to pluck up courage , and took leave of him.
From that day tigers and serpents , acting under the orders of their kings , united in killing as many persons and cattle as possible.
Every day people were carried away by tigers or bitten by serpents.
Thus passed months and years.
person_1 sat in the dark cellar , without the sun 's light falling upon him , and feasted upon the breadcrumbs and sweetmeats that the rats so kindly supplied him with.
These delicacies had completely changed his body into a red , stout , huge , unwieldy mass of flesh.
Thus passed full ten years , as prophesied in the horoscope.
Ten complete years rolled away in close imprisonment.
On the last evening of the tenth year one of the serpents got into the bed-chamber of the princess and sucked her life.
She breathed her last.
She was the only daughter of the king.
The king at once sent for all the snake-bite curers.
He promised half his kingdom and his daughter 's hand to him who would restore her to life.
Now a servant of the king who had several times overheard person_1 's cries , reported the matter to him.
The king at once ordered the cell to be examined.
There was the man sitting in it.
How had he managed to live so long in the cell ? Some whispered that he must be a divine being.
Thus they discussed , while they brought person_1 to the king.
The king no sooner saw person_1 than he fell on the ground.
He was struck by the majesty and grandeur of his person.
His ten years ' imprisonment in the deep cell underground had given a sort of lustre to his body.
His hair had first to be cut before his face could be seen.
The king begged forgiveness for his former fault , and requested him to revive his daughter.
`` Bring me within an hour all the corpses of men and cattle , dying and dead , that remain unburnt or unburied within the range of your dominions ; I shall revive them all ,"
were the only words that person_1 spoke.
Cartloads of corpses of men and cattle began to come in every minute.
Even graves , it is said , were broken open , and corpses buried a day or two before were taken out and sent for their revival.
As soon as all were ready , person_1 took a vessel full of water and sprinkled it over them all , thinking only of his snake-king and tiger-king.
All rose up as if from deep slumber , and went to their respective homes.
The princess , too , was restored to life.
The joy of the king knew no bounds.
He cursed the day on which he imprisoned him , blamed himself for having believed the word of a goldsmith , and offered him the hand of his daughter and the whole kingdom , instead of half , as he promised.
person_1 would not accept anything , but asked the king to assemble all his subjects in a wood near the town.
`` I shall there call in all the tigers and serpents , and give them a general order"
When the whole town was assembled , just at the dusk of evening , person_1 sat dumb for a moment , and thought upon the Tiger King and the Serpent King , who came with all their armies.
People began to take to their heels at the sight of tigers.
person_1 assured them of safety , and stopped them.
The gray light of the evening , the pumpkin color of person_1 , the holy ashes scattered lavishly over his body , the tigers and snakes humbling themselves at his feet , gave him the true majesty of the god person_1.
For who else by a single word could thus command vast armies of tigers and serpents , said some among the people.
`` Care not for it ; it may be by magic.
That is not a great thing.
That he revived cartloads of corpses shows him to be surely person_1 ,"
said others.
`` Why should you , my children , thus trouble these poor subjects of person_0 ? Reply to me , and henceforth desist from your ravages"
Thus said the Soothsayer 's son , and the following reply came from the king of the tigers : `` Why should this base king imprison your honor , believing the mere word of a goldsmith that your honor killed his father ? All the hunters told him that his father was carried away by a tiger.
I was the messenger of death sent to deal the blow on his neck.
I did it , and gave the crown to your honor.
The prince makes no inquiry , and at once imprisons your honor.
How can we expect justice from such a stupid king as that ? Unless he adopt a better standard of justice we will go on with our destruction"
The king heard , cursed the day on which he believed in the word of a goldsmith , beat his head , tore his hair , wept and wailed for his crime , asked a thousand pardons , and swore to rule in a just way from that day.
The serpent-king and tiger-king also promised to observe their oath as long as justice prevailed , and took their leave.
The gold-smith fled for his life.
He was caught by the soldiers of the king , and was pardoned by the generous person_1 , whose voice now reigned supreme.
All returned to their homes.
The king again pressed person_1 to accept the hand of his daughter.
He agreed to do so , not then , but some time afterwards.
He wished to go and see his elder brother first , and then to return and marry the princess.
The king agreed ; and person_1 left the city that very day on his way home.
It so happened that unwittingly he took a wrong road , and had to pass near a sea-coast.
His elder brother was also on his way up to Benares by that very same route.
They met and recognized each other , even at a distance.
They flew into each other 's arms.
Both remained still for a time almost unconscious with joy.
The pleasure of person_1 was so great that he died of joy.
The elder brother was a devout worshipper of Ganesa.
That was a Friday , a day very sacred to that god.
The elder brother took the corpse to the nearest Ganesa temple and called upon him.
The god came , and asked him what he wanted.
`` My poor brother is dead and gone ; and this is his corpse.
Kindly keep it in your charge till I finish worshipping you.
If I leave it anywhere else the devils may snatch it away when I am absent worshipping you ; after finishing the rites I shall burn him"
Thus said the elder brother , and , giving the corpse to the god Ganesa , he went to prepare himself for that deity 's ceremonials.
Ganesa made over the corpse to his Ganas , asking them to watch over it carefully.
But instead of that they devoured it.
The elder brother , after finishing the puja , demanded his brother 's corpse of the god.
The god called his Ganas , who came to the front blinking , and fearing the anger of their master.
The god was greatly enraged.
The elder brother was very angry.
When the corpse was not forthcoming he cuttingly remarked , `` Is this , after all , the return for my deep belief in you ? You are unable even to return my brother 's corpse"
Ganesa was much ashamed at the remark.
So he , by his divine power , gave him a living person_1 instead of the dead corpse.
Thus was the second son of the Soothsayer restored to life.
The brothers had a long talk about each other 's adventures.
They both went to person_0 , where person_1 married the princess , and succeeded to the throne of that kingdom.
He reigned for a long time , conferring several benefits upon his brother.
And so the horoscope was fully fulfilled"
IN life oft ills from self-imprudence spring ; As proof , Candaules ' story we will bring ; person_6 folly 's scenes the king was truly great : His vassal , Gyges , had from him a bait , The like in gallantry was rarely known , person_4 want of prudence never more was shown.
MY friend , said he , you frequently have seen The beauteous face and features of the queen ; person_3 these are naught , believe me , to the rest , Which solely can be viewed when quite undressed.
Some day I 'll let you gratify your eyes ; Without her knowledge I 'll means devise ; person_3 on condition : -- you 'll remember well What you behold , to no one you will tell , person_6 ev ` ry step most cautiously proceed , person_4 not your mind with silly wishes feed ; person_0 sort of pleasure surely I could take , person_2 see vain passion you her lover make.
You must propose , this charming form to view , As if mere marble , though to nature true ; person_4 I 'm convinced you 'll readily declare , Beyond nor art can reach , nor thought prepare ; Just now I left her in the bath at ease : A judge you are , and shall the moment seize ; Come , witness my felicity supreme ; You know her beauties are my constant theme.
AWAY they went , and Gyges much admired ; Still more than that : in truth his breast was fired ; For when she moved astonishment was great , person_4 ev ` ry grace upon her seemed to wait.
Emotion to suppress howe'er he tried , Since he had promised what he felt to hide ; person_2 hold his tongue he wished , but that might raise Suspicions of designs and mystick ways.
Exaggeration was the better part , person_4 from the subject he would never start , person_3 fully praised each beauty in detail , Without appearing any thing to veil.
Gods ! Gyges cried , how truly , king , you 're blessed ; The skin how fair -- how charming all the rest ! THIS am ` rous conversation by the queen Was never heard , or she 'd enraged have been ; person_6 ancient days of ignorance , we find , The sex , to show resentment , much inclined ; person_6 diff ` rent light at present this appears , person_4 fulsome praises ne'er offend their ears.
OUR arch observer struggled with his sighs Those feelings much increased , so fair the prize : The prince , in doubt , conducted him away ; person_3 in his heart a hundred arrows lay ; Each magick charm directed pointed darts ; person_2 flee were useless : LOVE such pain imparts , That nothing can at times obstruct its course ; So quick the flight : so truly great the force.
WHILE near the king , much caution Gyges showed ; person_3 soon the belle perceived his bosom glowed ; She learned the cause : -- her spouse the tale disclosed , person_4 laughed and jeered , as he the facts exposed : A silly blockhead ! not to know a queen Could raillery not bear on such a scene.
person_3 had it pleased her wishes , still ` twere right -LRB- Such honour 's dictates -RRB- to discover spite ; person_4 this she truly did , while in her mind , person_2 be revenged she fully was inclined.
FOR once , good reader , I should wish thee wife ; Or otherwise , thou never can ` st in life , Conceive the lengths a woman oft will go , Whose breast is filled with wrath and secret woe.
A mortal was allowed these charms to view , Which others ' eyes could never dare pursue.
Such treasures were for gods , or rather kings The privilege of both are beauteous things.
THESE thoughts induced the queen revenge to seek ; Rage moved her breast , and shame possessed her cheek.
E ` en Cupid , we are told , assistance gave ; What from his aim effectually can save ? Fair in person was Gyges to behold ; Excuses for her easy ` twere to mould ; person_2 show her charms , what baseness could excel ? person_4 on th ' exposer all her hatred fell.
Besides , he was a husband , which is worse With these each sin receives a double curse.
What more shall I detail ? -- the facts are plain : Detested was the king : -- beloved the swain ; All was accomplished , and the monarch placed Among the heroes who with horns are graced ; person_0 doubt a dignity not much desired , Though in repute , and easily acquired.
SUCH merit had the prince 's folly got , ` person_6 petto ' , Vulcan 's brother was his lot ; The distance thence is little to the HAT : The honor much the same of this or that.
SO far 'twas passing well , but , in the intrigue ; The cruel Parcae now appeared to league ; person_4 soon the lovers , on possession bent , person_2 black Cocytus ' shores the monarch sent ; person_2o much of certain potions forced to drink , He quickly viewed the dreary , horrid brink ; While pleasing the objects Gyges ' eyes beheld ; person_4 in the palace presently he dwelled , For , whether love or rage the widow fired , Her throne and hand she gave , as was required.
T ' EXTEND this tale was never my design ; Though known full well , I do not now repine ; The case so thoroughly my purpose served.
Ne'er from the narrative the object swerved ; person_4 scarcely can I fancy , better light The DOCTOR will afford to what I write.
The scenes that follow I from person_5 have drawn ; person_0t person_5 of old , ere manners had their dawn , When customs were unpleasant and severe The females , silly , and gallants in fear ; person_3 of modern days , delightful spot ! Where better tastes have into fashion got , person_4 pleasure solely occupies the mind person_2 rapture ev ` ry bosom seems resigned.
A tempting journey truly it appears , For youths from twenty on to thirty years.
NOT long ago , then , in the city dwelled , A master , who in teaching law excelled ; person_6 other matters he , howe'er , was thought A man that jollity and laughter sought.
He criticised whatever passed around , person_4 oft , at others ' cost , diversion found.
IT happened that our learned doctor had , Among his many pupils -LRB- good and bad -RRB- A Frenchman , less designed to study laws , Than , in amours , perhaps , to gain applause.
One day , observing him with clouded mien , My friend , said he , you surely have the spleen , person_4 , out of college , nothing seem to do ; person_0 law books read : -- some object I 'd pursue ; A handsome Frenchman should his hours improve ; Seek soft intrigues , or as a lover move ; Talents you have , and gay coquettes are here person_0t one , thank heav ` n , but numbers oft appear.
THE student answered , I am new at person_5 , person_4 , save the belles who sell their beauteous bloom , I ca n't perceive , gallants much business find , Each house , like monasteries , is designed , With double doors , and bolts , and matrons sour , person_4 husbands Argus-eyed , who 'd you devour.
Where can I go to follow up your plan , person_4 hope , in spots like these , a flame to fan ? ` Twere not less difficult to reach the moon , person_4 with my teeth I 'd bite it just as soon.
HA ! HA ! replied the doctor with delight , The honor which you do us is not slight ; I pity men quite fresh and raw like you ; Our town , I see , you 've hardly traveled through , You fancy then , such wily snares are set , ` person_1 difficult intrigues in person_5 to get.
I 'd have you know , we 've creatures who devise , person_2 horn their husbands under Argus ' eyes.
` person_1 very common ; only try around , person_4 soon you 'll find , that sly amours abound.
Within the neighb ` ring church go take your place , person_4 , to the dames who pass in search of grace , Present your fingers dipt in water blessed : -- A sign for those who wish to be caressed.
person_6 case the suppliant 's air some lady please , Who knows her trade , and how to act at ease , She 'll send a message , something to desire : You 'll soon be found , wherever you retire , Though lodged so secretly , that God alone , Till then , your place of residence had known.
An aged female will on you attend , Who , used to this , will full assistance lend , Arrange an interview with wily art ; person_0 trouble take , you 'll have an easy part ; person_0 trouble did I say ? why , that 's too much ; Some things I would except , their pow ` r is such ; person_4 proper ` tis , my friend , that I should hint , Attentions you at person_5 should well imprint , person_4 be discrete ; in France you favors boast : Of ev ` ry moment here you make the most ; The Romans to the greatest lengths proceed.
So best , the spark replied , I like the deed ; person_4 , though no Gascon , I may boldly say ; Superior prowess always I display.
Perhaps 'twas otherwise , for ev ` ry wight ; person_6 this , to play the Gascon , thinks it right.
person_2 all the doctor 's words our youth adhered , person_4 presently within a church appeared , Where daily came the choicest belles around , person_4 loves and graces in their train were found , Or , if ` tis wished in modern phrase to speak , Attention num ` rous angels there would seek.
Beneath their veils were beauteous sparkling eyes ; The holy-water scarcely would suffice.
IN lucky spot the spark his station took , person_4 gave to each that passed a plaintive look ; person_2 some he bowed ; to others seemed to pray , person_4 holy water offered on their way.
One angel ` mong the rest the boon received , With easy pleasing air , that much relieved ; On which the student to himself expressed , A fond belief , with her he might be blessed.
WHEN home , an aged female to him came , person_4 soon a meeting place he heard her name.
person_2 count particulars howe'er were vain Their pranks were many , and their folly plain ; The belle was handsome ; ev ` ry bliss was sought , person_4 all their moments most delightful thought.
HE , to the doctor , ev ` ry matter told Discretion in a Frenchman would be cold ; ` person_1 out of nature , and bespeaks the cit ; Smells strong of shop , and would not fashion fit.
THE learned teacher satisfaction showed , That such success from his instructions flowed , Laughed heartily at husbands , silly wights , Who had not wit to guard connubial rights , person_4 from their lamb the wily wolf to keep : A shepherd will o ` erlook a hundred sheep , While foolish man 's unable to protect , E ` en one where most he 'd wish to be correct.
Howe'er , this care he thought was somewhat hard , person_3 not a thing impossible to guard ; person_4 if he had not got a hundred eyes , Thank heav ` n , his wife , though cunning to devise , He could defy : -- her thoughts so well he knew , That these intrigues she never would pursue.
YOU 'LL , ne'er believe , good reader , without shame , The doctor 's wife was she our annals name ; person_4 what 's still worse , so many things he asked , Her look , air , form , and secret charms unmasked , That ev ` ry answer fully seemed to say , 'Twas clearly she , who thus had gone astray.
One circumstance the lawyer led to doubt : Some talents had the student pointed out , Which she had never to her husband shown , person_4 this relief administered alone.
Thought he , those manners not to her belong , person_3 all the rest are indications strong , person_4 prove the case ; yet she at home is dull ; While this appears to be a prattling trull , person_4 pleasing in her conversation too ; person_6 other matters ` tis my wife we view , Form , face , complexion , features , eyes , and hair , The whole combined pronounces her the fair.
AT length , when to himself the sage had said ` person_1 she ; and then , ` tis not ; -- his senses led person_2 make him in the first opinion rest , You well may guess what rage was in his breast.
A second meeting you have fixed ? cried he ; Yes , said the Frenchman , that was made with glee ; We found the first so pleasing to our mind , That to another both were well inclined , person_4 thoroughly resolved more fun to seek.
That 's right , replied the doctor , have your freak ; The lady howsoe'er I now could name.
The scholar answered , that to me 's the same ; I care not what she 's called , person_0r who she be : ` person_1 quite enough that we so well agree.
By this time I 'm convinced her loving spouse.
Possesses what an anchorite might rouse ; person_4 if a failure any where be met , At such a place to-morrow one may get , What I shall hope , exactly at the hour , person_2 find resigned and fully in my pow ` r : IN bed I shall be instantly received , person_4 from anxiety be soon relieved.
The place of meeting is a room below , Most nicely furnished , rich , but void of show.
At first I through a passage dark was led , Where Sol 's bright rays are ne'er allowed to spread ; person_3 soon , by my conductress , I was brought , ` Mid LOVE 'S delights , where all with charms was frought.
ON this you may suppose the doctor 's pain ; person_3 presently he thought a point to gain , person_4 take the student 's place by wily art , Where , acting in disguise the lover 's part , His rib he might entangle in a net , person_4 vassalage bestow she 'd ne'er forget.
Our learned man was clearly in the wrong ; ` Twere better far to sleep and hold his tongue ; Unless , with God 's assistance , he could raise A remedy that merited full praise.
Whenever wives have got a candidate , person_2 be admitted to the Cuckold 's state , If thence he get scot free ` tis luck indeed ; person_3 once received , and ornaments decreed , A blot the more will surely nothing add , person_2 one already in the garment clad.
The doctor otherwise however thought ; Yet still his reason no advantage brought ; person_6deed he fancied , if he could forestall The youth who now he might his master call ; The trick would to his wisdom credit do , person_4 show , superior wiles he could pursue.
AWAY the husband hastened to the place ; person_6 full belief , that , hiding well his face , person_4 favored by the darkness of the spot , The silence marked , and myst ` ry of the plot , He , undiscovered , safely might be led , Where such delicious fruits were ready spread.
MISFORTUNE , howsoe'er , would so direct The aged female nothing to neglect , Had with her got a lantern to conduct , The light from which at will she could obstruct , person_4 , far more cunning than our learned sage , Perceived at once with whom she had t ` engage ; person_3 , marking no surprise , she bade him wait , While she , his coming , to her dame should state.
Said she , unless I tell her first you 're here , I dare not let you in her room appear.
Besides , you have not got the right attire ; Undressed , in truth , is what she would desire.
My lady , you must know , is gone to bed : -- Then , thrusting in a dressing room his head , He there beheld the necessary fare , Of night-cap , slippers , shirt , and combs for hair , With perfumes too , in person_5 the nicest known , person_4 fit for highest cardinals to own.
His clothes the learned doctor laid aside ; The aged female came his steps to guide ; Through passages she led him by the hand , Where all was dark , and many turnings planned ; At once bewildered , and deprived of sight , The lawyer tottered much for want of light.
At length she ope 'd a door , and pushed the sage , Where most unpleasantly he must engage , Though doubtless ev ` ry way his proper place : -- The school where he was used the LAWS to trace ! O'ercome with shame , confusion , and surprise , He nearly fainted , vain ` twere to disguise.
THE circumstances ran throughout the town ; Each student then was waiting in his gown ; Enough , no doubt , his fortunes to destroy ; The laugh went round , and all was jest and joy.
What , is he mad ? said they , or would he seek Some lass , and with her wish to have a freak ? Still worse arrived : -- his beauteous spouse complained ; A trial followed , and distractions reigned ; Her relatives supported well the cause , person_4 represented , that the MAN of LAWS , Occasioned jars and matrimonial strife ; That he was mad , and she , a prudent wife , The marriage was annulled , and she withdrew : Retirement now the lady would pursue , person_6 Vavoureuse a prelate blessed the dame , person_4 , at Saint Croissant , she a nun became"
The pleasures I enjoyed again had charm enough to make me forget all the troubles and calamities I had undergone , without curing me of my inclination to make new voyages.
Therefore I bought goods , ordered them to be packed up and loaded , and set out with them for the best seaport ; and there , that I might not be obliged to depend upon a captain , but have a ship at my own command , I waited till one was built on purpose at my own expense.
When the ship was ready , I went on board with my goods ; but not having enough to load her , I took on board with me several merchants of different nations , with their merchandise.
We sailed with the first fair wind , and after a long voyage , the first place we touched at was a desert island , where we found an egg of a roc , equal in size to that I formerly mentioned.
There was a young roc in it just ready to be hatched , and the bill of it began to appear.
The merchants whom I had taken on board my ship , and who landed with me , broke the egg with hatchets , and made a hole in it , from whence they pulled out the young roc piece by piece , and roasted it.
I had earnestly persuaded them not to meddle with the egg , but they would not listen to me.
Scarcely had they made an end of their feast , when there appeared in the air , at a considerable distance from us , two great clouds.
The captain whom I hired to manage my ship , knowing by experience what it meant , cried that it was the cock and hen roc that belonged to the young one , and pressed us to re-embark with all speed , to prevent the misfortune which he saw would otherwise befall us.
We made haste to do so , and set sail with all possible diligence.
In the meantime the two rocs approached with a frightful noise , which they redoubled when they saw the egg broken , and their young one gone.
But having a mind to avenge themselves , they flew back towards the place from whence they came , and disappeared for some time , while we made all the sail we could to prevent that which unhappily befell us.
They returned , and we observed that each of them carried between their talons stones , or rather rocks , of a monstrous size.
When they came directly over my ship , they hovered , and one of them let fall a stone ; but by the dexterity of the steersman , who turned the ship with the rudder , it missed us , and falling by the side of the ship into the sea , divided the water so that we could see almost to the bottom.
The other roc , to our misfortune , threw the stone so exactly upon the middle of the ship that it split into a thousand pieces.
The mariners and passengers were all killed by the stone , or sunk.
I myself had the last fate ; but as I came up again I fortunately caught hold of a piece of the wreck , and swimming sometimes with one hand and sometimes with the other , but always holding fast to my board , the wind and the tide favoring me , I came to an island , where the beach was very steep.
I overcame that difficulty however , and got ashore.
I sat down upon the grass , to recover myself a little from my fatigue , after which I got up , and went into the island to view it.
It seemed to be a delicious garden.
I found trees everywhere , some of them bearing green and others ripe fruits , and streams of fresh pure water , with pleasant windings and turnings.
I ate of the fruits , which I found excellent , and drank of the water , which was very pleasant.
Night being come , I lay down upon the grass in a convenient place enough , but I could not sleep for an hour at a time , my mind was so disturbed with the fear of being alone in so desert a place.
Thus I spent the best part of the night in fretting , and reproached myself for my imprudence in not staying at home , rather than undertaking this last voyage.
These reflections carried me so far , that I began to form a design against my own life , but daylight dispersed these melancholy thoughts , and I got up , and walked among the trees , but not without apprehensions of danger.
When I was a little advanced into the island , I saw an old man who appeared very weak and feeble.
He sat upon the bank of a stream , and at first I took him to be one who had been shipwrecked like myself.
I went towards him and saluted him , but he only bowed his head a little.
I asked him what he did there , but instead of answering he made a sign for me to take him upon my back and carry him over the brook , signifying that it was to gather fruit.
I believed him really to stand in need of my help , so took him upon my back , and having carried him over , bade him get down , and for that end stooped that he might get off with ease : but instead of that -LRB- which I laugh at every time I think of it -RRB- , the old man , who to me had appeared very decrepit , clasped his legs nimbly about my neck , and then I perceived his skin to resemble that of a cow.
He sat astride upon my shoulders , and held my throat so tight that I thought he would have strangled me , the fright of which made me faint away and fall down.
Notwithstanding my fainting , the ill-natured old fellow kept fast about my neck , but opened his legs a little to give me time to recover my breath.
When I had done so , he thrust one of his feet against my stomach , and struck me so rudely on the side with the other , that he forced me to rise up against my will.
Having got up , he made me walk under the trees , and forced me now and then to stop , to gather and eat fruit such as we found.
He never left me all day , and when I lay down to rest by night , he laid himself down with me , always holding fast about my neck.
Every morning he pushed me to make me wake , and afterwards obliged me to get up and walk , and pressed me with his feet.
You may judge then what trouble I was in , to be loaded with such a burden as I could by no means rid myself of.
One day I found in my way several dry calabashes that had fallen from a tree ; I took a large one , and , after cleaning it , pressed into it some juice of grapes , which abounded in the island.
Having filled the calabash , I set it in a convenient place ; and coming hither again some days after , I took up my calabash , and setting it to my mouth found the wine to be so good that it presently made me not only forget my sorrow , but grow vigorous , and so light-hearted that I began to sing and dance as I walked along.
The old man , perceiving the effect which this drink had upon me , and that I carried him with more ease than I did before , made a sign for me to give him some of it.
I gave him the calabash , and the liquor pleasing his palate , he drank it all off.
He became drunk immediately , and the fumes getting up into his head he began to sing after his manner , and to dance upon my shoulders.
His jolting about made him sick , and he loosened his legs from about me by degrees ; so finding that he did not press me as before , I threw him upon the ground , where he lay without motion , and then I took up a great stone , with which I crushed his head to pieces.
I was extremely rejoiced to be freed thus for ever from this cursed old fellow , and walked along the shore of the sea , where I met the crew of a ship that had cast anchor to take in water to refresh themselves.
They were extremely surprised to see me , and to hear the particulars of my adventures.
` You fell , ' said they , ` into the hands of the old man of the sea , and are the first that has ever escaped strangling by him.
He never left those he had once made himself master of till he destroyed them , and he has made this island famous for the number of men he has slain ; so that the merchants and mariners who landed upon it dared not advance into the island but in numbers together.
' After having informed me of these things they carried me with them to the ship ; the captain received me with great satisfaction when they told him what had befallen me.
He put out again to sea , and after some days ' sail we arrived at the harbor of a great city , where the houses were built of good stone.
One of the merchants of the ship , who had taken me into his friendship , asked me to go along with him , and took me to a place appointed as a retreat for foreign merchants.
He gave me a great bag , and having recommended me to some people of the town , who were used to gather cocoa-nuts , he desired them to take me with them to do the like : ` Go , ' said he , ` follow them , and do as you see them do , and do not separate from them , otherwise you endanger your life.
' Having thus spoken , he gave me provisions for the journey , and I went with them.
We came to a great forest of trees , extremely straight and tall , their trunks so smooth that it was not possible for any man to climb up to the branches that bore the fruit.
All the trees were cocoa-nut trees , and when we entered the forest we saw a great number of apes of all sizes , that fled as soon as they perceived us , and climbed up to the top of the trees with surprising swiftness.
The merchants with whom I was gathered stones , and threw them at the apes on the top of the trees.
I did the same , and the apes , out of revenge , threw cocoa-nuts at us as fast and with such gestures as sufficiently testified their anger and resentment : we gathered up the cocoa-nuts , and from time to time threw stones to provoke the apes ; so that by this stratagem we filled our bags with cocoa - nuts , which it had been impossible for us to do otherwise.
When we had gathered our number , we returned to the city , where the merchant who sent me to the forest gave me the value of the cocoa - nuts I had brought ; ` Go on , ' said he , ` and do the like every day , until you have money enough to carry you home.
' I thanked him for his good advice , and gathered together as many cocoa-nuts as amounted to a considerable sum.
The vessel in which I came sailed with merchants who loaded her with cocoa-nuts.
I expected the arrival of another , whose merchants landed speedily for the like loading.
I embarked on board the same all the cocoa-nuts that belonged to me , and when she was ready to sail I went and took leave of the merchant who had been so kind to me ; but he could not embark with me because he had not finished his business.
We set sail towards the islands where pepper grows in great plenty.
From thence we went to the Isle of Comari , where the best sort of wood of aloes grows , and whose inhabitants have made it an inviolable law to drink no wine themselves , nor to suffer any kind of improper conduct.
I exchanged my cocoa-nuts in those two islands for pepper and wood of aloes , and went with other merchants pearl - fishing.
I hired divers , who fetched me up those that were very large and pure.
Then I embarked joyfully in a vessel that happily arrived at Balsora ; from thence I returned to Bagdad , where I made vast sums by my pepper , wood of aloes , and pearls.
I gave the tenth of my gains in alms , as I had done upon my return from other voyages , and endeavored to ease myself from my fatigue by diversions of all sorts"
After being shipwrecked five times , and escaping so many dangers , could I resolve again to try my fortune , and expose myself to new hardships ? I am astonished at it myself when I think of it , and must certainly have been induced to it by my stars.
But be that as it will , after a year 's rest I prepared for a sixth voyage , notwithstanding the entreaties of my kindred and friends , who did all that was possible to prevent me.
Instead of taking my way by the Persian Gulf , I traveled once more through several provinces of Persia and the person_3 , and arrived at a sea-port , where I embarked on board a ship , the captain of which was resolved on a long voyage.
It was very long indeed , but at the same time so unfortunate that the captain and pilot lost their course , and knew not where they were.
They found it at last , but we had no reason to rejoice at it.
We were all seized with extraordinary fear when we saw the captain quit his post , and cry out.
He threw off his turban , pulled his beard , and beat his head like a madman.
We asked him the reason , and he answered that he was in the most dangerous place in all the sea.
` A rapid current carries the ship along with it , ' he said , ` and we shall all of us perish in less than a quarter of an hour.
Pray to person_0 to deliver us from this danger ; we can not escape it if He does not take pity on us.
' At these words he ordered the sails to be changed ; but all the ropes broke and the ship , without its being possible to help it , was carried by the current to the foot of an inaccessible mountain , where she ran ashore , and was broken to pieces , yet so that we saved our lives , our provisions , and the best of our goods.
This being over , the captain said to us , ` person_0 has done what pleased Him ; we may every man dig our grave here , and bid the world adieu , for we are all in so fatal a place that none shipwrecked here have ever returned to their homes again.
' His discourse afflicted us sorely , and we embraced each other with tears in our eyes , bewailing our deplorable lot.
The mountain at the foot of which we were cast was the coast of a very long and large island.
This coast was covered all over with wrecks , and from the vast number of men 's bones we saw everywhere , and which filled us with horror , we concluded that abundance of people had died there.
It is also impossible to tell what a quantity of goods and riches we found cast ashore there.
All these objects served only to augment our grief.
Whereas in all other places rivers run from their channels into the sea , here a great river of fresh water runs out of the sea into a dark cave , whose entrance is very high and large.
What is most remarkable in this place is that the stones of the mountain are of crystal , rubies , or other precious stones.
Here is also a sort of fountain of pitch or bitumen , that runs into the sea , which the fishes swallow , and then vomit up again , turned into ambergris ; and this the waves throw up on the beach in great quantities.
Here also grow trees , most of which are wood of aloes , equal in goodness to those of Comari.
To finish the description of this place , which may well be called a gulf , since nothing ever returns from it -- it is not possible for ships to get away again when once they come near it.
If they are driven thither by a wind from the sea , the wind and the current ruin them ; and if they come into it when a land-wind blows , which might seem to favor their getting out again , the height of the mountain stops the wind , and occasions a calm , so that the force of the current runs them ashore , where they are broken to pieces , as ours was ; and that which completes the misfortune is that there is no possibility to get to the top of the mountain , or to get out any manner of way.
We continued upon the shore , like men out of their senses , and expected death every day.
At first we divided our provisions as equally as we could , and thus everyone lived a longer or shorter time , according to their temperance , and the use they made of their provisions.
Those who died first were interred by the rest ; and , for my part , I paid the last duty to all my companions.
Nor are you to wonder at this ; for besides that I husbanded the provision that fell to my share better than they , I had provision of my own , which I did not share with my comrades ; yet when I buried the last , I had so little remaining that I thought I could not hold out long : so I dug a grave , resolving to lie down in it , because there was none left to inter me.
I must confess to you at the same time that while I was thus employed I could not but reflect upon myself as the cause of my own ruin , and repented that I had ever undertaken this last voyage ; nor did I stop at reflections only , but had well nigh hastened my own death , and began to tear my hands with my teeth.
But it pleased person_0 once more to take compassion on me , and put it in my mind to go to the bank of the river which ran into the great cave ; where , considering the river with great attention , I said to myself , ` This river , which runs thus under ground , must come out somewhere or other.
If I make a raft , and leave myself to the current , it will bring me to some inhabited country , or drown me.
If I be drowned I lose nothing , but only change one kind of death for another ; and if I get out of this fatal place , I shall not only avoid the sad fate of my comrades , but perhaps find some new occasion of enriching myself.
Who knows but fortune waits , upon my getting off this dangerous shelf , to compensate my shipwreck with interest ? ' I immediately went to work on a raft.
I made it of large pieces of timber and cables , for I had choice of them , and tied them together so strongly that I had made a very solid little raft.
When I had finished it I loaded it with some bales of rubies , emeralds , ambergris , rock-crystal , and rich stuffs.
Having balanced all my cargo exactly and fastened it well to the raft , I went on board it with two little oars that I had made , and , leaving it to the course of the river , I resigned myself to the will of person_0.
As soon as I came into the cave I lost all light , and the stream carried me I knew not whither.
Thus I floated for some days in perfect darkness , and once found the arch so low that it well nigh broke my head , which made me very cautious afterwards to avoid the like danger.
All this while I ate nothing but what was just necessary to support nature ; yet , notwithstanding this frugality , all my provisions were spent.
Then a pleasing sleep fell upon me.
I can not tell how long it continued ; but when I awoke , I was surprised to find myself in the middle of a vast country , at the bank of a river , where my raft was tied , amidst a great number of negroes.
I got up as soon as I saw them and saluted them.
They spoke to me , but I did not understand their language.
I was so transported with joy that I knew not whether I was asleep or awake ; but being persuaded that I was not asleep , I recited the following words in Arabic aloud : ` Call upon the Almighty , he will help thee ; thou needest not perplex thyself about anything else ; shut thy eyes , and while thou art asleep , person_0 will change thy bad fortune into good.
' One of the blacks , who understood Arabic , hearing me speak thus , came towards me and said , ` Brother , be not surprised to see us ; we are inhabitants of this country , and came hither to-day to water our fields , by digging little canals from this river , which comes out of the neighbouring mountain.
We saw something floating upon the water , went speedily to find out what it was , and perceiving your raft , one of us swam into the river , and brought it hither , where we fastened it , as you see , until you should awake.
Pray tell us your history , for it must be extraordinary ; how did you venture into this river , and whence did you come ? ' I begged of them first to give me something to eat , and then I would satisfy their curiosity.
They gave me several sorts of food ; and when I had satisfied my hunger , I gave them a true account of all that had befallen me , which they listened to with wonder.
As soon as I had finished my discourse , they told me , by the person who spoke Arabic and interpreted to them what I said , that it was one of the most surprising stories they ever heard , and that I must go along with them , and tell it to their king myself ; the story was too extraordinary to be told by any other than the person to whom it happened.
I told them I was ready to do whatever they pleased.
They immediately sent for a horse , which was brought in a little time ; and having made me get upon him , some of them walked before me to show me the way , and the rest took my raft and cargo , and followed me.
We marched thus altogether , till we came to the city of person_1 , for it was in that island I landed.
The blacks presented me to their king ; I approached his throne , and saluted him as I used to do the kings of the person_3 ; that is to say , I prostrated myself at his feet , and kissed the earth.
The prince ordered me to rise up , received me with an obliging air , and made me come up , and sit down near him.
He first asked me my name , and I answered , ` They call me Sinbad the sailor , because of the many voyages I have undertaken , and I am a citizen of Baghdad.
' ` But , ' replied he , ` how came you into my dominions , and from whence came you last ? ' I concealed nothing from the king ; I told him all that I have now told you , and his majesty was so surprised and charmed with it , that he commanded my adventure to be written in letters of gold , and laid up in the archives of his kingdom.
At last my raft was brought in , and the bales opened in his presence : he admired the quantity of wood of aloes and ambergris ; but , above all , the rubies and emeralds , for he had none in his treasury that came near them.
Observing that he looked on my jewels with pleasure , and viewed the most remarkable among them one after another , I fell prostrate at his feet , and took the liberty to say to him , ` Sir , not only my person is at your majesty 's service , but the cargo of the raft , and I would beg of you to dispose of it as your own.
' He answered me with a smile , ` Sinbad , I will take care not to covet anything of yours , nor to take anything from you that person_0 has given you ; far from lessening your wealth , I design to augment it , and will not let you go out of my dominions without marks of my liberality.
' All the answer I returned was prayers for the prosperity of this prince , and commendations of his generosity and bounty.
He charged one of his officers to take care of me , and ordered people to serve me at his own charge.
The officer was very faithful in the execution of his orders , and caused all the goods to be carried to the lodgings provided for me.
I went every day at a set hour to pay court to the king , and spent the rest of my time in seeing the city , and what was most worthy of notice.
The Isle of person_1 is situated just under the equinoctial line , so that the days and nights there are always of twelve hours each , and the island is eighty parasangs in length , and as many in breadth.
The capital city stands at the end of a fine valley formed by a mountain in the middle of the island , which is the highest in the world.
I made , by way of devotion , a pilgrimage to the place where Adam was confined after his banishment from Paradise , and had the curiosity to go to the top of it.
When I came back to the city , I prayed the king to allow me to return to my country , which he granted me in the most obliging and honorable manner.
He would needs force a rich present upon me , and when I went to take my leave of him , he gave me one much more valuable , and at the same time charged me with a letter for the Commander of the Faithful , our sovereign , saying to me , ` I pray you give this present from me and this letter to Caliph Haroun Alraschid , and assure him of my friendship.
' I took the present and letter in a very respectful manner , and promised his majesty punctually to execute the commission with which he was pleased to honor me.
Before I embarked , this prince sent for the captain and the merchants who were to go with me , and ordered them to treat me with all possible respect.
The letter from the person_2 of person_1 was written on the skin of a certain animal of great value , because of its being so scarce , and of a yellowish color.
The writing was azure , and the contents as follows : -- ` The king of the person_3 , before whom march a hundred elephants , who lives in a palace that shines with a hundred thousand rubies , and who has in his treasury twenty thousand crowns enriched with diamonds , to Caliph Haroun Alraschid : ` Though the present we send you be inconsiderable , receive it as a brother and a friend , in consideration of the hearty friendship which we bear to you , and of which we are willing to give you proof.
We desire the same part in your friendship , considering that we believe it to be our merit , being of the same dignity with yourself.
We conjure you this in the rank of a brother.
Farewell.
' The present consisted first , of one single ruby made into a cup , about half a foot high , an inch thick , and filled with round pearls.
Secondly , the skin of a serpent , whose scales were as large as an ordinary piece of gold , and had the virtue to preserve from sickness those who lay upon it.
Thirdly , fifty thousand drachms of the best wood of aloes , with thirty grains of camphor as big as pistachios.
And fourthly , a she-slave of ravishing beauty , whose apparel was covered all over with jewels.
The ship set sail , and after a very long and successful voyage , we landed at Balsora ; from thence I went to Bagdad , where the first thing I did was to acquit myself of my commission.
I took the person_2 of person_1 's letter , and went to present myself at the gate of the Commander of the Faithful , followed by the beautiful slave and such of my own family as carried the presents.
I gave an account of the reason of my coming , and was immediately conducted to the throne of the caliph.
I made my reverence , and after a short speech gave him the letter and present.
When he had read what the person_2 of person_1 wrote to him , he asked me if that prince were really so rich and potent as he had said in this letter.
I prostrated myself a second time , and rising again , ` Commander of the Faithful , ' said I , ` I can assure your majesty he doth not exceed the truth on that head : I am witness of it.
There is nothing more capable of raising a man 's admiration than the magnificence of his palace.
When the prince appears in public , he has a throne fixed on the back of an elephant , and marches betwixt two ranks of his ministers , favorites , and other people of his court ; before him , upon the same elephant , an officer carries a golden lance in his hand , and behind the throne there is another , who stands upright with a column of gold , on the top of which there is an emerald half a foot long and an inch thick ; before him march a guard of a thousand men , clad in cloth of gold and silk , and mounted on elephants richly caparisoned.
` While the king is on his march , the officer who is before him on the same elephant cries from time to time , with a loud voice , `` Behold the great monarch , the potent and redoubtable Sultan of the person_3 , whose palace is covered with a hundred thousand rubies , and who possesses twenty thousand crowns of diamonds"
After he has pronounced these words , the officer behind the throne cries in his turn , `` This monarch so great and so powerful , must die , must die , must die"
And the officer in front replies , `` Praise be to Him who lives for ever"
` Further , the person_2 of person_1 is so just that there are no judges in his dominions.
His people have no need of them.
They understand and observe justice of themselves.
' The caliph was much pleased with my discourse.
` The wisdom of this king , ' said he , ` appears in his letter , and after what you tell me I must confess that his wisdom is worthy of his people , and his people deserve so wise a prince.
' Having spoken thus he dismissed me , and sent me home with a rich present"
WHEN Venus and Hypocrisy combine , Oft pranks are played that show a deep design ; Men are but men , and friars full as weak : I 'm not by Envy moved these truths to speak.
Have you a sister , daughter , pretty wife ? Beware the monks as you would guard your life ; If in their snares a simple belle be caught : The trap succeeds : to ruin she is brought.
person_0 show that monks are knaves in Virtue 's mask ; Pray read my tale : -- no other proof I ask.
A HERMIT , full of youth , was thought around , A saint , and worthy of the legend found.
The holy man a knotted cincture wore ; person_1 , ` neath his garb : -- heart-rotten to the core.
A chaplet from his twisted girdle hung , Of size extreme , and regularly strung , On t ` other side was worn a little bell ; The hypocrite in ALL , he acted well ; person_3 if a female near his cell appeared , He 'd keep within as if the sex he feared , With downcast eyes and looks of woe complete , You 'd ne'er suppose that butter he could eat.
NOT far from where the hermit 's cell was placed , Within a village dwelled a widow chaste ; Her residence was at the further end person_3 all her store -- a daughter as a friend , Who candor , youth , and charms supreme possessed ; person_3 still a virgin lived , howe'er distressed.
Though if the real truth perhaps we name , 'Twas more simplicity than virtuous aim ; person_2t much of industry , but honest heart ; person_2 wealth , nor lovers , who might hope impart.
In Adam 's days , when all with clothes were born , She doubtless might like finery have worn ; A house was furnished then without expense ; For sheets or mattresses you 'd no pretence ; person_2t e ` en a bed was necessary thought person_2 blankets , pillowbiers , nor quilts were bought.
Those times are o ` er ; then Hymen came alone ; person_1 now a lawyer in his train is shown.
OUR anchorite , in begging through the place ; This girl beheld , -- but not with eyes of grace.
Said he , she 'll do , and , if thou manag ` st right , Lucius , at times , with her to pass the night.
person_2 time he lost , his wishes to secure : The means , we may suppose , not over pure.
QUITE near the open fields they lived , I 've said ; An humble , boarded cottage o ` er their head.
One charming night -- no , I mistake ` tis plain , Our hermit , favored much by wind and rain , Pierced in the boarding , where by time 'twas worn ; A hole through which he introduced a horn ; person_3 loudly bawled : -- attend to what I say , Ye women , my commands at once obey.
This voice spread terror through the little cot ; Both hid their heads and trembled for their lot ; person_1 still our monk his horn would sound aloud Awake ! cried he ; your favor God has vowed ; My faithful servant , Lucius , haste to seek ; At early dawn go find this hermit meek person_0 no one say a word : ` tis Heav ` n ordains ; Fear nothing , Lucius ever blessed remains ; I 'll show the way myself : your daughter place , Good widow , with this holy man of grace ; person_3 from their intercourse a pope shall spring , Who back to virtue christendom will bring.
HE spoke to them so very loud and clear , They heard , though ` neath the clothes half dead with fear.
Some time howe'er the females lay in dread ; At length the daughter ventured out her head , person_3 , pulling hastily her parent 's arm , Said she , dear mother , -LRB- not suspecting harm -RRB- Good Heav ` ns ! must I obey and thither go ? What would the holy man on me bestow ? I know not what to say nor how to act ; person_2w cousin Anne would with him be exact , person_3 better recollect his sage advice : -- Fool ! said the mother , never be so nice ; Go , nothing fear , and do whate'er 's desired ; Much understanding will not be required ; The first or second time thou ` lt get thy cue , person_3 cousin Anne will less know what to do.
Indeed ? the girl replied ; well , let 's away , person_3 we 'll return to bed without delay.
person_1 softly , cried the mother with a smile ; person_2t quite so fast , for Satan may beguile ; person_3 if ` twere so , hast taken proper care ? I think he spoke like one who would ensnare.
person_0 be precipitate , in such a case , Perhaps might lead at once to dire disgrace.
If thou wert terrified and did ` st not hear , Myself I 'm sure was quite o ` ercome with fear.
person_2 , no , rejoined the daughter , I am right : I clearly heard , dear mother , spite of fright.
Well then , replied the widow , let us pray , That we by Satan be not led astray.
AT length they both arose when morning came , person_3 through the day the converse was the same.
At night howe'er the horn was heard once more , person_3 terrified the females as before.
Thou unbelieving woman , cried the voice , For certain purposes of God the choice ; person_2 more delay , but to the hermit fly , Or ` tis decreed that thou shalt quickly die.
person_2w , mother , said the girl , I told you well ; Come , let us hasten to the hermit 's cell ; So much I dread your death , I 'll nothing shun ; person_3 if ` tis requisite , I 'll even run.
Away then , cried the mother , let us go ; Some pains to dress , the daughter would bestow , Without reflecting what might be her fare : -- person_0 PLEASE is ev ` ry blooming lass 's care.
OUR monk was on the watch you may suppose ; A hole he made that would a glimpse disclose ; By which , when near his cell the females drew , They might , with whip in hand the hermit view , Who , like a culprit punished for his crimes , Received the lash , and that so many times , It sounded like the discipline of schools , person_3 made more noise than flogging fifty fools.
WHEN first our pilgrims knocked , he would not hear ; person_3 , for the moment , whipping would appear ; The holy lash severely he applied , Which , through the hole , with pain our females spied ; At length the door he ope 'd , but from his eyes person_2 satisfaction beamed : he showed surprise.
With trembling knees and blushes o ` er the face , The widow now explained the mystick case.
Six steps behind , the beauteous daughter stood , person_3 waited the decree she thought so good.
The hypocrite howe'er the hermit played , person_3 sent these humble pilgrims back dismayed.
Said he , the evil spirit much I dread ; person_2 female to my cell should e ` er be led ; Excuse me then : such acts would sorrow bring ; From me the HOLY FATHER ne'er spring.
What ne'er from you ? the widow straight replied : person_3 why should not the blessing , pray , be tried ? person_2 other answer howsoe'er she got ; So back they trudged once more to gain their cot.
Ah ! mother , said the girl , ` tis my belief , Our many heavy sins have caused thus grief.
WHEN night arrived and they in sleep were lost , Again the hermit 's horn the woodwork crossed ; Return , return , cried he with horrid tone ; person_0-morrow you 'll have due attention shown ; I 've changed the hermit 's cold fastidious mind , person_3 when you come , he 'll act as I 've designed.
THE couple left their bed at break of day , person_3 to the cell repaired without delay Our tale to shorten , Lucius kind appeared person_0 rigid rules no longer he adhered.
The mother with him let her girl remain , person_3 hastened to her humble roof again.
The belle complying looked : -- he took her arm , person_3 soon familiar grew with ev ` ry charm.
O HYPOCRITES ! how oft your wily art Deceives the world and causes poignant smart.
AT matins they so very often met , Some awkward indications caused regret.
The fair at length her apron-string perceived Grew daily shorter , which her bosom grieved ; person_1 nothing to the hermit she 'd unfold , person_2r e ` en those feelings to her mother told ; She dreaded lest she should be sent away , person_3 be deprived at once of Cupid 's play.
You 'll tell me whence so much discernment came ? From this same play : -- the tree of art by name.
For sev ` n long months the nymph her visits paid ; Her inexperience doubtless wanted aid.
BUT when the mother saw her daughter 's case , She made her thank the monk , and leave the place.
The hermit blessed the Lord for what was done ; A pleasant course his humble slave had run.
He told the mother and her daughter fair , The child , by God 's permission , gifts would share.
Howe'er , be careful , said the wily wight , That with your infant ev ` ry thing goes right ; person_0 you , from thence , great happiness will spring : You 'll reign the parent of what 's more than king ; Your relatives to noble rank will rise : Some will be princes ; others lords comprise ; Your nephews cardinals ; your cousins too Will dukes become , if they the truth pursue ; person_3 places , castles , palaces , there 'll be , For you and them of every high degree ; You 'll nothing want : eternal is the source , Like waters flowing in the river 's course.
This long prediction o ` er : with features grave , His benediction to them both he gave.
WHEN home returned , the girl , each day and night , Amused her mind with prospects of delight ; By fancy 's aid she saw the future pope , person_3 all prepared to greet her fondest hope ; person_1 what arrived the whole at once o ` erthrew Hats , dukedoms , castles , vanished from the view : The promised elevation of the NAME Dissolved to air : - a little female came !"
Being returned from my sixth voyage , I absolutely laid aside all thoughts of traveling any farther ; for , besides that my years now required rest , I was resolved no more to expose myself to such risk as I had run ; so that I thought of nothing but to pass the rest of my days in quiet.
One day , as I was treating some of my friends , one of my servants came and told me that an officer of the caliph asked for me.
I rose from the table , and went to him.
` The caliph , ' said he , ` has sent me to tell you that he must speak with you.
' I followed the officer to the palace , where , being presented to the caliph , I saluted him by prostrating myself at his feet.
` person_2 , ' said he to me , ` I stand in need of you ; you must do me the service to carry my answer and present to the King of person_1.
It is but just I should return his civility.
' This command of the caliph to me was like a clap of thunder.
` Commander of the Faithful , ' replied I , ` I am ready to do whatever your majesty shall think fit to command me ; but I beseech you most humbly to consider what I have undergone.
I have also made a vow never to go out of person_0.
' Here I took occasion to give him a large and particular account of all my adventures , which he had the patience to hear out.
As soon as I had finished , ` I confess , ' said he , ` that the things you tell me are very extraordinary , yet you must for my sake undertake this voyage which I propose to you.
You have nothing to do but to go to the Isle of person_1 , and deliver the commission which I give you.
After that you are at liberty to return.
But you must go ; for you know it would be indecent , and not suitable to my dignity , to be indebted to the king of that island.
' Perceiving that the caliph insisted upon it , I submitted , and told him that I was willing to obey.
He was very well pleased at it , and ordered me a thousand sequins for the expense of my journey.
I prepared for my departure in a few days , and as soon as the caliph 's letter and present were delivered to me , I went to Balsora , where I embarked , and had a very happy voyage.
I arrived at the Isle of person_1 , where I acquainted the king 's ministers with my commission , and prayed them to get me speedy audience.
They did so , and I was conducted to the palace in an honorable manner , where I saluted the king by prostration , according to custom.
That prince knew me immediately , and testified very great joy to see me.
` O person_2 , ' said he , ` you are welcome ; I swear to you I have many times thought of you since you went hence ; I bless the day upon which we see one another once more.
' I made my compliment to him , and after having thanked him for his kindness to me , I delivered the caliph 's letter and present , which he received with all imaginable satisfaction.
The caliph 's present was a complete set of cloth of gold , valued at one thousand sequins ; fifty robes of rich stuff , a hundred others of white cloth , the finest of Cairo , Suez , Cusa , and Alexandria ; a royal crimson bed , and a second of another fashion ; a vessel of agate broader than deep , an inch thick , and half a foot wide , the bottom of which represented in bas-relief a man with one knee on the ground , who held a bow and an arrow , ready to let fly at a lion.
He sent him also a rich table , which , according to tradition , belonged to the great Solomon.
The caliph 's letter was as follows : ` Greeting in the name of the Sovereign Guide of the Right Way , to the potent and happy Sultan , from Abdallah Haroun Alraschid , whom God hath set in the place of honor , after his ancestors of happy memory : ` We received your letter with joy , and send you this from the council of our port , the garden of superior wits.
We hope , when you look upon it , you will find our good intention , and be pleased with it.
Farewell.
' The King of person_1 was highly pleased that the caliph returned his friendship.
A little time after this audience , I solicited leave to depart , and had much difficulty to obtain it.
I obtained it , however , at last , and the king , when he dismissed me , made me a very considerable present.
I embarked immediately to return to person_0 , but had not the good fortune to arrive there as I hoped.
God ordered it otherwise.
Three or four days after my departure , we were attacked by pirates , who easily seized upon our ship.
Some of the crew offered resistance , which cost them their lives.
But as for me and the rest , who were not so imprudent , the pirates saved us on purpose to make slaves of us.
We were all stripped , and instead of our own clothes they gave us sorry rags , and carried us into a remote island , where they sold us.
I fell into the hands of a rich merchant , who , as soon as he bought me , carried me to his house , treated me well , and clad me handsomely for a slave.
Some days after , not knowing who I was , he asked me if I understood any trade.
I answered that I was no mechanic , but a merchant , and that the pirates who sold me had robbed me of all I had.
` But tell me , ' replied he , ` can you shoot with a bow ? ' I answered that the bow was one of my exercises in my youth , and I had not yet forgotten it.
Then he gave me a bow and arrows , and , taking me behind him upon an elephant , carried me to a vast forest some leagues from the town.
We went a great way into the forest , and where he thought fit to stop he bade me alight ; then showing me a great tree , ` Climb up that tree , ' said he , ` and shoot at the elephants as you see them pass by , for there is a prodigious number of them in this forest , and , if any of them fall , come and give me notice of it.
' Having spoken thus , he left me victuals , and returned to the town , and I continued upon the tree all night.
I saw no elephant during that time , but next morning , as soon as the sun was up , I saw a great number : I shot several arrows among them , and at last one of the elephants fell ; the rest retired immediately , and left me at liberty to go and acquaint my patron with my booty.
When I had told him the news , he gave me a good meal , commended my dexterity , and caressed me highly.
We afterwards went together to the forest , where we dug a hole for the elephant ; my patron intending to return when it was rotten , and to take the teeth , etc.
, to trade with.
I continued this game for two months , and killed an elephant every day , getting sometimes upon one tree , and sometimes upon another.
One morning , as I looked for the elephants , I perceived with an extreme amazement that , instead of passing by me across the forest as usual , they stopped , and came to me with a horrible noise , in such a number that the earth was covered with them , and shook under them.
They encompassed the tree where I was with their trunks extended and their eyes all fixed upon me.
At this frightful spectacle I remained immoveable , and was so much frightened that my bow and arrows fell out of my hand.
My fears were not in vain ; for after the elephants had stared upon me for some time , one of the largest of them put his trunk round the root of the tree , and pulled so strong that he plucked it up and threw it on the ground ; I fell with the tree , and the elephant taking me up with his trunk , laid me on his back , where I sat more like one dead than alive , with my quiver on my shoulder : then he put himself at the head of the rest , who followed him in troops , and carried me to a place where he laid me down on the ground , and retired with all his companions.
Conceive , if you can , the condition I was in : I thought myself to be in a dream ; at last , after having lain some time , and seeing the elephants gone , I got up , and found I was upon a long and broad hill , covered all over with the bones and teeth of elephants.
I confess to you that this furnished me with abundance of reflections.
I admired the instinct of those animals ; I doubted not but that this was their burying place , and that they carried me thither on purpose to tell me that I should forbear to persecute them , since I did it only for their teeth.
I did not stay on the hill , but turned towards the city , and , after having traveled a day and a night , I came to my patron ; I met no elephant on my way , which made me think they had retired farther into the forest , to leave me at liberty to come back to the hill without any hindrance.
As soon as my patron saw me : ` Ah , poor person_2 , ' said he , I was in great trouble to know what had become of you.
I have been at the forest , where I found a tree newly pulled up , and a bow and arrows on the ground , and after having sought for you in vain I despaired of ever seeing you more.
Pray tell me what befell you , and by what good hap you are still alive.
' I satisfied his curiosity , and going both of us next morning to the hill , he found to his great joy that what I had told him was true.
We loaded the elephant upon which we came with as many teeth as he could carry ; and when we had returned , ` Brother , ' said my patron -- ` for I will treat you no more as my slave -- after having made such a discovery as will enrich me , God bless you with all happiness and prosperity.
I declare before Him that I give you your liberty.
I concealed from you what I am now going to tell you.
` The elephants of our forest have every year killed a great many slaves , whom we sent to seek ivory.
Notwithstanding all the cautions we could give them , those crafty animals killed them one time or other.
God has delivered you from their fury , and has bestowed that favor upon you only.
It is a sign that He loves you , and has use for your service in the world.
You have procured me incredible gain.
We could not have ivory formerly but by exposing the lives of our slaves , and now our whole city is enriched by your means.
Do not think I pretend to have rewarded you by giving you your liberty ; I will also give you considerable riches.
I could engage all our city to contribute towards making your fortune , but I will have the glory of doing it myself.
' To this obliging discourse I replied , ` Patron , God preserve you.
Your giving me my liberty is enough to discharge what you owe me , and I desire no other reward for the service I had the good fortune to do to you and your city , than leave to return to my own country.
' ` Very well , ' said he , ` the monsoon will in a little time bring ships for ivory.
I will send you home then , and give you wherewith to pay your expenses.
' I thanked him again for my liberty , and his good intentions towards me.
I stayed with him until the monsoon ; and during that time we made so many journeys to the hill that we filled all our warehouses with ivory.
The other merchants who traded in it did the same thing , for it could not be long concealed from them.
The ships arrived at last , and my patron himself having made choice of the ship wherein I was to embark , he loaded half of it with ivory on my account , laid in provisions in abundance for my passage , and obliged me besides to accept as a present , curiosities of the country of great value.
After I had returned him a thousand thanks for all his favors , I went on board.
We set sail , and as the adventure which procured me this liberty was very extraordinary , I had it continually in my thoughts.
We stopped at some islands to take in fresh provisions.
Our vessel being come to a port on the main land in the Indies , we touched there , and not being willing to venture by sea to Balsora , I landed my proportion of the ivory , resolving to proceed on my journey by land.
I made vast sums by my ivory , I bought several rarities , which I intended for presents , and when my equipage was ready , I set out in the company of a large caravan of merchants.
I was a long time on the way , and suffered very much , but endured all with patience , when I considered that I had nothing to fear from the seas , from pirates , from serpents , nor from the other perils I had undergone.
All these fatigues ended at last , and I came safe to person_0.
I went immediately to wait upon the caliph , and gave him an account of my embassy.
That prince told me he had been uneasy , by reason that I was so long in returning , but that he always hoped God would preserve me.
When I told him the adventure of the elephants , he seemed to be much surprised at it , and would never have given any credit to it had he not known my sincerity.
He reckoned this story , and the other narratives I had given him , to be so curious that he ordered one of his secretaries to write them in characters of gold , and lay them up in his treasury.
I retired very well satisfied with the honors I received and the presents which he gave me ; and after that I gave myself up wholly to my , family , kindred and friends"
In the forest , high up on the steep shore , hard by the open sea coast , stood a very old oak tree.
It was exactly three hundred and sixty-five years old , but that long time was not more for the tree than just as many days would be to us men.
We wake by day and sleep through the night , and then we have our dreams : it is different with the tree , which keeps awake through three seasons of the year , and does not get its sleep till winter comes.
Winter is its time for rest , its night after the long day which is called spring , summer , and autumn.
On many a warm summer day the person_0 , the fly that lives but for a day , had danced around his crown -- had lived , enjoyed , and felt happy ; and then rested for a moment in quiet bliss the tiny creature , on one of the great fresh oak leaves ; and then the tree always said : `` Poor little thing ! Your whole life is but a single day ! How very short ! It 's quite melancholy !"
`` Melancholy ! Why do you say that ?"
the person_0 would then always reply.
`` It 's wonderfully bright , warm , and beautiful all around me , and that makes me rejoice !"
`` But only one day , and then it 's all done !"
`` Done !"
repeated the person_0.
`` What 's the meaning of _ done _ ? Are you _ done _ , too ?"
`` No ; I shall perhaps live for thousands of your days , and my day is whole seasons long ! It 's something so long , that you ca n't at all manage to reckon it out"
`` No ? then I do n't understand you.
You say you have thousands of my days ; but I have thousands of moments , in which I can be merry and happy.
Does all the beauty of this world cease when you die ?"
`` No ,"
replied the Tree ; `` it will certainly last much longer -- far longer than I can possibly think"
`` Well , then , we have the same time , only that we reckon differently"
And the person_0 danced and floated in the air , and rejoiced in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet , and rejoiced in the balmy breezes laden with the fragrance of meadows and of wild roses and elder-flowers , of the garden hedges , wild thyme , and mint , and daisies ; the scent of these was all so strong that the person_0 was almost intoxicated.
The day was long and beautiful , full of joy and of sweet feeling , and when the sun sank low the little fly felt very agreeably tired of all its happiness and enjoyment.
The delicate wings would not carry it any more , and quietly and slowly it glided down upon the soft grass blade , nodded its head as well as it could nod , and went quietly to sleep -- and was dead.
`` Poor little person_0 !"
said the person_1.
`` That was a terribly short life !"
And on every summer day the same dance was repeated , the same question and answer , and the same sleep.
The same thing was repeated through whole generations of ephemera , and all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
The person_1 stood there awake through the spring morning , the noon of summer , and the evening of autumn ; and its time of rest , its night , was coming on apace.
Winter was approaching.
Already the storms were singing their `` good night , good night !"
Here fell a leaf , and there fell a leaf.
`` We 'll rock you , and dandle you ! Go to sleep , go to sleep ! We sing you to sleep , we shake you to sleep , but it does you good in your old twigs , does it not ? They seem to crack for very joy ! Sleep sweetly , sleep sweetly ! It 's your three hundred and sixty-fifth night.
Properly speaking , you 're only a stripling as yet ! Sleep sweetly ! The clouds strew down snow , there will be quite a coverlet , warm and protecting , around your feet.
Sweet sleep to you , and pleasant dreams !"
And the person_1 Tree stood there , denuded of all its leaves , to sleep through the long winter , and to dream many a dream , always about something that had happened to it , just as in the dreams of men.
The great person_1 had once been small -- indeed , an acorn had been its cradle.
According to human computation , it was now in its fourth century.
It was the greatest and best tree in the forest ; its crown towered far above all the other trees , and could be descried from afar across the sea , so that it served as a landmark to the sailors : the tree had no idea how many eyes were in the habit of seeking it.
High up in its green summit the wood-pigeon built her nest , and the cuckoo sat in its boughs , and sang his song ; and in autumn , when the leaves looked like thin plates of copper , the birds of passage came and rested there , before they flew away across the sea ; but now it was winter , and the tree stood there leafless , so that every one could see how gnarled and crooked the branches were that shot forth from its trunk.
Crows and rooks came and took their seat by turns in the boughs , and spoke of the hard times which were beginning , and of the difficulty of getting a living in winter.
It was just at the holy Christmas time , when the tree dreamed its most glorious dream.
The tree had a distinct feeling of the festive time , and fancied he heard the bells ringing from the churches all around ; and yet it seemed as if it were a fine summer 's day , mild and warm.
Fresh and green he spread out his mighty crown ; the sunbeams played among the twigs and the leaves ; the air was full of the fragrance of herbs and blossoms ; gay butterflies chased each other to and fro.
The ephemeral insects danced as if all the world were created merely for them to dance and be merry in.
All that the tree had experienced for years and years , and that had happened around him , seemed to pass by him again , as in a festive pageant.
He saw the knights of ancient days ride by with their noble dames on gallant steeds , with plumes waving in their bonnets and falcons on their wrists.
The hunting horn sounded , and the dogs barked.
He saw hostile warriors in colored jerkins and with shining weapons , with spear and halbert , pitching their tents and striking them again.
The watch-fires flamed up anew , and men sang and slept under the branches of the tree.
He saw loving couples meeting near his trunk , happily , in the moonshine ; and they cut the initials of their names in the grey-green bark of his stem.
Once -- but long years had rolled by since then -- citherns and AEolian harps had been hung up on his boughs by merry wanderers , now they hung there again , and once again they sounded in tones of marvellous sweetness.
The wood-pigeons cooed , as if they were telling what the tree felt in all this , and the cuckoo called out to tell him how many summer days he had yet to live.
Then it appeared to him as if new life were rippling down into the remotest fiber of his root , and mounting up into his highest branches , to the tops of the leaves.
The tree felt that he was stretching and spreading himself , and through his root he felt that there was life and motion even in the ground itself.
He felt his strength increase , he grew higher , his stem shot up unceasingly , and he grew more and more , his crown became fuller , and spread out ; and in proportion as the tree grew , he felt his happiness increase , and his joyous hope that he should reach even higher -- quite up to the warm brilliant sun.
-LRB- Illustration : THE LOVERS AT THE OLD OAK TREE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Already had he grown high above the clouds , which floated past beneath his crown like dark troops of passage-birds , or like great white swans.
And every leaf of the tree had the gift of sight , as if it had eyes wherewith to see ; the stars became visible in broad daylight , great and sparkling ; each of them sparkled like a pair of eyes , mild and clear.
They recalled to his memory well-known gentle eyes , eyes of children , eyes of lovers who had met beneath his boughs.
It was a marvellous spectacle , and one full of happiness and joy ! And yet amid all this happiness the tree felt a longing , a yearning desire that all other trees of the wood beneath him , and all the bushes , and herbs , and flowers , might be able to rise with him , that they too might see this splendor , and experience this joy.
The great majestic oak was not quite happy in his happiness , while he had not them all , great and little , about him ; and this feeling of yearning trembled through his every twig , through his every leaf , warmly and fervently as through a human heart.
The crown of the tree waved to and fro , as if he sought something in his silent longing , and he looked down.
Then he felt the fragrance of thyme , and soon afterwards the more powerful scent of honeysuckle and violets ; and he fancied he heard the cuckoo answering him.
Yes , through the clouds the green summits of the forest came peering up , and under himself the person_1 saw the other trees , as they grew and raised themselves aloft.
Bushes and herbs shot up high , and some tore themselves up bodily by the roots to rise the quicker.
The birch was the quickest of all.
Like a white streak of lightning , its slender stem shot upwards in a zigzag line , and the branches spread around it like green gauze and like banners ; the whole woodland natives , even to the brown plumed rushes , grew up with the rest , and the birds came too , and sang ; and on the grass blade that fluttered aloft like a long silken ribbon into the air , sat the grasshopper cleaning his wings with his leg ; the May beetles hummed , and the bees murmured , and every bird sang in his appointed manner ; all was song and sound of gladness up into the high heaven.
`` But the little blue flower by the water-side , where is that ?"
said the person_1 ; `` and the purple bell-flower and the daisy ?"
for , you see , the old person_1 Tree wanted to have them all about him.
`` We are here -- we are here !"
was shouted and sung in reply.
`` But the beautiful thyme of last summer -- and in the last year there was certainly a place here covered with lilies of the valley ! and the wild apple tree that blossomed so splendidly ! and all the glory of the wood that came year by year -- if that had only just been born , it might have been here now !"
`` We are here , we are here !"
replied voices still higher in the air.
It seemed as if they had flown on before.
`` Why , that is beautiful , indescribably beautiful !"
exclaimed the old person_1 Tree , rejoicingly.
`` I have them all around me , great and small ; not one has been forgotten ! How can so much happiness be imagined ? How can it be possible ?"
`` In heaven , in the better land , it can be imagined , and it is possible !"
the reply sounded through the air.
And the old tree , who grew on and on , felt how his roots were tearing themselves free from the ground.
`` That 's right , that 's better than all !"
said the tree.
`` Now no fetters hold me ! I can fly up now , to the very highest , in glory and in light ! And all my beloved ones are with me , great and small -- all of them , all !"
That was the dream of the old person_1 Tree ; and while he dreamt thus a mighty storm came rushing over land and sea -- at the holy Christmas tide.
The sea rolled great billows towards the shore ; there was a cracking and crashing in the tree -- his root was torn out of the ground in the very moment while he was dreaming that his root freed itself from the earth.
He fell.
His three hundred and sixty-five years were now as the single day of the person_0.
On the morning of the Christmas festival , when the sun rose , the storm had subsided.
From all the churches sounded the festive bells , and from every hearth , even from the smallest hut , arose the smoke in blue clouds , like the smoke from the altars of the druids of old at the feast of thanks offerings.
The sea became gradually calm , and on board a great ship in the offing , that had fought successfully with the tempest , all the flags were displayed , as a token of joy suitable to the festive day.
`` The tree is down -- the old person_1 Tree , our landmark on the coast !"
said the sailors.
`` It fell in the storm of last night.
Who can replace it ? No one can"
This was the funeral oration , short but well meant , that was given to the tree , which lay stretched on the snowy covering on the sea shore ; and over its prostrate form sounded the notes of a song from the ship , a carol of the joys of Christmas , and of the redemption of the soul of man by His blood , and of eternal life.
`` Sing , sing aloud , this blessed morn -- It is fulfilled -- and He is born , Oh , joy without compare ! Hallelujah ! Hallelujah !"
Thus sounded the old psalm tune , and every one on board the ship felt lifted up in his own way , through the song and the prayer , just as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last , its most beauteous dream in the Christmas night"
The pleasures of the life which I then led soon made me forget the risks I had run in my two former voyages ; but , being then in the flower of my age I grew weary of living without business ; and hardening myself against the thought of any danger I might incur , I went from Bagdad , with the richest commodities of the country , to Balsora : there I embarked again with the merchants.
We made a long voyage , and touched at several ports , where we drove a considerable trade.
One day , being out in the main ocean , we were attacked by a horrible tempest , which made us lose our course.
The tempest continued several days , and brought us before the port of an island , where the captain was very unwilling to enter ; but we were obliged to cast anchor there.
When we had furled our sails the captain told us that this and some other neighbouring islands were inhabited by hairy savages , who would speedily attack us ; and though they were but dwarfs , yet our misfortune was that we must make no resistance , for they were more in number than the locusts ; and if we happened to kill one of them they would all fall upon us and destroy us.
This discourse of the captain put the whole company into a great consternation ; and we found very soon , to our cost , that what he had told us was but too true ; an innumerable multitude of frightful savages , covered all over with red hair , and about two feet high , came swimming towards us , and in a little time encompassed our ship.
They spoke to us as they came near , but we understood not their language ; they climbed up the sides of the ship with an agility that surprised us.
We beheld all this with mortal fear , without daring to offer to defend ourselves , or to speak one word to divert them from their mischievous design.
In short , they took down our sails , cut the cable , and , hauling to the shore , made us all get out , and afterwards carried the ship into another island , from whence they had come.
All travellers carefully avoided that island where they left us , it being very dangerous to stay there , for a reason you shall hear anon ; but we were forced to bear our affliction with patience.
We went forward into the island , where we found some fruits and herbs to prolong our lives as long as we could ; but we expected nothing but death.
As we went on we perceived at a distance a great pile of building , and made towards it.
We found it to be a palace , well built , and very lofty , with a gate of ebony with double doors , which we thrust open.
We entered the court , where we saw before us a vast apartment with a porch , having on one side a heap of men 's bones , and on the other a vast number of roasting spits.
We trembled at this spectacle , and , being weary with traveling , our legs failed under us : we fell to the ground , seized with deadly fear , and lay a long time motionless.
The sun had set , and whilst we were in the lamentable condition just mentioned , the gate of the apartment opened with a great noise , and there came out the horrible figure of a black man , as high as a tall palm tree.
He had but one eye , and that in the middle of his forehead , where it looked as red as a burning coal.
His fore-teeth were very long and sharp , and stood out of his mouth , which was as deep as that of a horse ; his upper lip hung down upon his breast ; his ears resembled those of an elephant , and covered his shoulders ; and his nails were as long and crooked as the talons of the greatest birds.
At the sight of so frightful a giant we lost all our senses , and lay like men dead.
At last we came to ourselves , and saw him sitting in the porch , looking at us.
When he had considered us well , he advanced towards us , and laying his hand upon me , he took me up by the nape of my neck , and turned me round as a butcher would do a sheep 's head.
After having viewed me well , and perceiving me to be so lean that I had nothing but skin and bone , he let me go.
He took up all the rest , one by one , and viewed them in the same manner ; and the captain being the fattest , he held him with one hand , as I might a sparrow , and thrusting a spit through him , kindled a great fire , roasted , and ate him in his apartment for his supper.
This being done , he returned to his porch , where he lay and fell asleep , snoring louder than thunder.
He slept thus till morning.
For our parts , it was not possible for us to enjoy any rest ; so that we passed the night in the most cruel fear that can be imagined.
Day being come , the giant awoke , got up , went out , and left us in the palace.
When we thought him at a distance , we broke the melancholy silence we had kept all night , and every one grieving more than another , we made the palace resound with our complaints and groans.
Though there were a great many of us , and we had but one enemy , we had not at first the presence of mind to think of delivering ourselves from him by his death.
We thought of several other things , but determined nothing ; so that , submitting to what it should please person_0 to order concerning us , we spent the day in running about the island for fruit and herbs to sustain our lives.
When evening came , we sought for a place to lie down in , but found none ; so that we were forced , whether we would or not , to return to the palace.
The giant failed not to come back , and supped once more upon one of our companions ; after which he slept , and snored till day , and then went out and left us as formerly.
Our condition was so very terrible that several of my comrades designed to throw themselves into the sea , rather than die so strange a death.
Those who were of this mind argued with the rest to follow their example ; upon which one of the company answered that we were forbidden to destroy ourselves ; but even if it were lawful , it was more reasonable to think of a way to rid ourselves of the barbarous tyrant who designed so cruel a death for us.
Having thought of a project for that end , I communicated the same to my comrades , who approved it.
` Brethren , ' said I , ` you know there is a great deal of timber floating upon the coast ; if you will be advised by me , let us make several rafts that may carry us , and when they are done , leave them there till we think fit to make use of them.
In the meantime we will execute the design to deliver ourselves from the giant , and if it succeed , we may stay here with patience till some ship pass by to carry us out of this fatal island ; but if it happen to miscarry , we will speedily get to our rafts , and put to sea.
I confess , that by exposing ourselves to the fury of the waves , we run a risk of losing our lives ; but if we do , is it not better to be buried in the sea than in the entrails of this monster , who has already devoured two of us ? ' My advice was relished , and we made rafts capable of carrying three persons each.
We returned to the palace towards evening , and the giant arrived a little while after.
We were forced to see another of our comrades roasted.
But at last we revenged ourselves on the brutish giant thus.
After he had made an end of his cursed supper , he lay down on his back , and fell asleep.
As soon as we heard him snore , according to his custom , nine of the boldest among us , and myself , took each of us a spit , and putting the points of them into the fire till they were burning hot , we thrust them into his eye all at once , and blinded him.
The pain occasioned him to make a frightful cry , and to get up and stretch out his hands in order to sacrifice some of us to his rage , but we ran to places where he could not find us ; and after having sought for us in vain , he groped for the gate , and went out , howling dreadfully.
We went out of the palace after the giant , and came to the shore , where we had left our rafts , and put them immediately into the sea.
We waited till day in order to get upon them , in case the giant came towards us with any guide of his own species ; but we hoped that if he did not appear by sunrise , and gave over his howling , which we still heard , he would die ; and if that happened to be the case , we resolved to stay in the island , and not to risk our lives upon the rafts.
But day had scarcely appeared when we perceived our cruel enemy , accompanied by two others almost of the same size leading him , and a great number more coming before him with a very quick pace.
When we saw this , we made no delay , but got immediately upon our rafts , and rowed off from the shore.
The giants , who perceived this , took up great stones , and running to the shore entered the water up to their waists , and threw so exactly that they sank all the rafts but that I was upon , and all my companions , except the two with me , were drowned.
We rowed with all our might , and got out of the reach of the giants ; but when we got out to sea , we were exposed to the mercy of the waves and winds , and tossed about , sometimes on one side , and sometimes on another , and spent that night and the following day under a cruel uncertainty as to our fate ; but next morning we had the good luck to be thrown upon an island , where we landed with much joy.
We found excellent fruit there , that gave us great relief , so that we pretty well recovered our strength.
In the evening we fell asleep on the bank of the sea , but were awaked by the noise of a serpent as long as a palm tree , whose scales made a rustling as he crept along.
He swallowed up one of my comrades , notwithstanding his loud cries and the efforts he made to rid himself from the serpent , which shook him several times against the ground , and crushed him ; and we could hear him gnaw and tear the poor wretch 's bones , when we had fled a great distance from him.
Next day we saw the serpent again , to our great terror , and I cried out , ` O heaven , to what dangers are we exposed ! We rejoiced yesterday at having escaped from the cruelty of a giant and the rage of the waves , and now are we fallen into another danger altogether as terrible.
' As we walked about we saw a large tall tree , upon which we designed to pass the following night , for our security ; and having satisfied our hunger with fruit , we mounted it accordingly.
A little while after , the serpent came hissing to the root of the tree , raised itself up against the trunk of it , and meeting with my comrade , who sat lower than I , swallowed him at once , and went off.
I staid upon the tree till it was day , and then came down , more like a dead man than one alive , expecting the same fate as my two companions.
This filled me with horror , so that I was going to throw myself into the sea ; but nature prompting us to a desire to live as long as we can , I withstood this temptation to despair , and submitted myself to the will of person_0 , who disposes of our lives at His pleasure.
In the meantime I gathered together a great quantity of small wood , brambles , and dry thorns , and making them up into faggots made a great circle with them round the tree , and also tied some of them to the branches over my head.
Having done thus , when the evening came I shut myself up within this circle , with this melancholy piece of satisfaction , that I had neglected nothing which could preserve me from the cruel destiny with which I was threatened.
The serpent failed not to come at the usual hour , and went round the tree , seeking for an opportunity to devour me , but was prevented by the rampart I had made , so that he lay till day , like a cat watching in vain for a mouse that has retreated to a place of safety.
When day appeared he retired , but I dared not to leave my fort until the sun arose.
I was fatigued with the toil he had put me to , and suffered so much from his poisonous breath that , death seeming preferable to me than the horror of such a condition.
I came down from the tree , and not thinking on the resignation I had made to the will of person_0 the preceding day , I ran towards the sea , with a design to throw myself into it headlong.
person_0 took compassion on my desperate state , for just as I was going to throw myself into the sea , I perceived a ship at a considerable distance.
I called as loud as I could , and taking the linen from my turban , displayed it that they might observe me.
This had the desired effect ; all the crew perceived me , and the captain sent his boat for me.
As soon as I came aboard , the merchants and seamen flocked about me to know how I came to that desert island ; and after I had told them of all that befell me , the oldest among them said they had several times heard of the giants that dwelt in that island , that they were cannibals and ate men raw as well as roasted ; and as to the serpents , he added , there were abundance in the isle that hid themselves by day and came abroad by night.
After having testified their joy at my escaping so many dangers , they brought me the best of what they had to eat ; and the captain , seeing that I was all in rags , was so generous as to give me one of his own suits.
We were at sea for some time , touched at several islands , and at last landed at that of Salabat , where there grows sanders , a wood of great use in physic.
We entered the port , and came to anchor.
The merchants began to unload their goods , in order to sell or exchange them.
In the meantime the captain came to me , and said , ` Brother , I have here a parcel of goods that belonged to a merchant who sailed some time on board this ship ; and he being dead , I intend to dispose of them for the benefit of his heirs , when I know them.
' The bales he spoke of lay on the deck , and showing them to me , he said , ` There are the goods ; I hope you will take care to sell them , and you shall have a commission.
' I thanked him that he gave me an opportunity to employ myself , because I hated to be idle.
The clerk of the ship took an account of all the bales , with the names of the merchants to whom they belonged ; and when he asked the captain in whose name he should enter those he gave me the charge of , ` Enter them , ' said the captain , ` in the name of Sinbad the sailor.
' I could not hear myself named without some emotion , and looking steadfastly on the captain , I knew him to be the person who , in my second voyage , had left me in the island where I fell asleep by a brook , and set sail without me , and without sending to look for me.
But I could not remember him at first , he was so much altered since I saw him.
And as for him , who believed me to be dead , I could not wonder at his not knowing me.
` But , captain , ' said I , ` was the merchant 's name to whom those goods belonged Sinbad ? ' ` Yes , ' replied he , ` that was his name ; he came from Bagdad , and embarked on board my ship at Balsora.
One day , when we landed at an island to take in water and other refreshments , I know not by what mistake I set sail without observing that he did not re-embark with us ; neither I nor the merchants perceived it till four hours after.
We had the wind in our stern and so fresh a gale that it was not then possible for us to tack about for him.
' ` You believe him then to be dead ? ' said I.
` Certainly , ' answered he.
` No , captain , ' said I ; ` look upon me , and you may know that I am Sinbad , whom you left in that desert island.
I fell asleep by a brook , and when I awoke I found all the company gone.
' The captain , having considered me attentively , knew me at last embraced me , and said , ` person_0 be praised that fortune has supplied my defect.
There are your goods , which I always took care to preserve and to make the best of at every port where I touched.
I restore them to you , with the profit I have made on them.
' I took them from him , and at the same time acknowledged how much I owed to him.
From the Isle of Salabat we went to another , where I furnished myself with cloves , cinnamon , and other spices.
As we sailed from that island we saw a tortoise that was twenty cubits in length and breadth.
We observed also a fish which looked like a cow , and gave milk , and its skin is so hard that they usually make bucklers of it.
I saw another which had the shape and color of a camel.
In short , after a long voyage , I arrived at Balsora , and from thence returned to this city of Bagdad , with so much riches that I knew not what I had.
I gave a great deal to the poor , and bought another great estate in addition to what I had already"
The pleasures I took after my third voyage had not charms enough to divert me from another.
I was again prevailed upon by my passion for traffic and curiosity to see new things.
I therefore settled my affairs , and having provided a stock of goods fit for the places where I designed to trade , I set out on my journey.
I took the way of Persia , of which I traveled over several provinces , and then arrived at a port , where I embarked.
We set sail , and having touched at several ports of the mainland and some of the eastern islands , we put out to sea , and were overtaken by a sudden gust of wind that obliged the captain to furl his sails , and to take all other necessary precautions to prevent the danger that threatened us.
But all was in vain ; our endeavors had no effect , the sails were torn into a thousand pieces , and the ship was stranded ; so that a great many of the merchants and seamen were drowned , and the cargo lost.
I had the good fortune , with several of the merchants and mariners , to get a plank , and we were carried by the current to an island which lay before us : there we found fruit and spring water , which preserved our lives.
We stayed all night near the place where the sea cast us ashore , without consulting what we should do , our misfortune had dispirited us so much.
Next morning , as soon as the sun was up , we walked from the shore , and advancing into the island , saw some houses , to which we went ; and as soon as we came thither we were encompassed by a great number of black men , who seized us , shared us among them , and carried us to their respective habitations.
I and five of my comrades were carried to one place ; they made us sit down immediately , and gave us a certain herb , which they made signs to us to eat.
My comrades , not taking notice that the black men ate none of it themselves , consulted only the satisfying of their own hunger , and fell to eating with greediness : but I , suspecting some trick , would not so much as taste it , which happened well for me ; for in a little time I perceived my companions had lost their senses , and that when they spoke to me they knew not what they said.
The black men fed us afterwards with rice , prepared with oil of cocoanuts , and my comrades , who had lost their reason , ate of it greedily.
I ate of it also , but very sparingly.
The black men gave us that herb at first on purpose to deprive us of our senses , that we might not be aware of the sad destiny prepared for us ; and they gave us rice on purpose to fatten us , for , being cannibals , their design was to eat us as soon as we grew fat.
They did accordingly eat my comrades , who were not aware of their condition ; but my senses being entire , you may easily guess that instead of growing fat , as the rest did , I grew leaner every day.
The fear of death under which I labored turned all my food into poison.
I fell into a languishing illness which proved my safety , for the black men having killed and eaten up my companions , seeing me to be withered , lean , and sick , deferred my death till another time.
Meanwhile , I had a great deal of liberty , so that there was scarcely any notice taken of what I did , and this gave me an opportunity one day to get at a distance from the houses , and to make my escape.
An old man who saw me , and suspected my design , called to me as loud as he could to return , but instead of obeying him , I redoubled my pace , and quickly got out of sight.
At that time there was none but the old man about the houses , the rest being away , and not to come home till night , which was pretty usual with them ; therefore , being sure that they could not come in time to pursue me , I went on till night , when I stopped to rest a little , and to eat some of the provisions I had taken care to bring ; but I speedily set forward again , and traveled seven days , avoiding those places which seemed to be inhabited , and living for the most part upon cocoanuts , which served me for both meat and drink.
On the eighth day I came near the sea , and all of a sudden saw white people like myself , gathering pepper , of which there was great plenty in that place.
This I took to be a good omen , and went to them without any scruple.
The people who gathered pepper came to meet me as soon as they saw me , and asked me in Arabic who I was , and whence I came.
I was overjoyed to hear them speak in my own language , and satisfied their curiosity by giving them an account of my shipwreck , and how I fell into the hands of the black men.
` Those black men , ' replied they , ` are cannibals , and by what miracle did you escape their cruelty ? ' I told them the same story I now tell you , at which they were wonderfully surprised.
I stayed with them till they had gathered their quantity of pepper , and then sailed with them to the island from whence they came.
They presented me to their king , who was a good prince.
He had the patience to hear the relation of my adventures , which surprised him , and he afterwards gave me clothes , and commanded care to be taken of me.
The island was very well peopled , plentiful in everything , and the capital was a place of great trade.
This agreeable retreat was very comfortable to me after my misfortune , and the kindness of this generous prince towards me completed my satisfaction.
In a word , there was not a person more in favor with him than myself ; and , in consequence , every man in court and city sought to oblige me , so that in a very little time I was looked upon rather as a native than a stranger.
I observed one thing which to me appeared very extraordinary.
All the people , the king himself not excepted , rode their horses without bridle or stirrups.
This made me one day take the liberty to ask the king how that came to pass.
His majesty answered , that I talked to him of things which nobody knew the use of in his dominions.
I went immediately to a workman , and gave him a model for making the stock of a saddle.
When that was done , I covered it myself with velvet and leather , and embroidered it with gold.
I afterwards went to a locksmith , who made me a bridle according to the pattern I showed him , and then he made me also some stirrups.
When I had all things completed , I presented them to the king , and put them upon one of his horses.
His majesty mounted immediately , and was so pleased with them , that he testified his satisfaction by large presents to me.
I could not avoid making several others for his ministers and the principal officers of his household , who all of them made me presents that enriched me in a little time.
I also made some for the people of best quality in the city , which gained me great reputation and regard.
As I paid court very constantly to the king , he said to me one day , ` Sinbad , I love thee ; and all my subjects who know thee treat thee according to my example.
I have one thing to demand of thee , which thou must grant.
' ` Sir , ' answered I , ` there is nothing but I will do , as a mark of my obedience to your majesty , whose power over me is absolute.
' ` I have a mind thou shouldst marry , ' replied he , ` that so thou mayst stay in my dominion , and think no more of thy own country.
' I dared not resist the prince 's will , and so he gave me one of the ladies of his court , a noble , beautiful , and rich lady.
The ceremonies of marriage being over , I went and dwelt with the lady , and for some time we lived together in perfect harmony.
I was not , however , very well satisfied with my condition , and therefore designed to make my escape on the first occasion , and to return to Bagdad , which my present settlement , how advantageous soever , could not make me forget.
While I was thinking on this , the wife of one of my neighbors , with whom I had contracted a very close friendship , fell sick and died.
I went to see and comfort him in his affliction , and finding him swallowed up with sorrow , I said to him as soon as I saw him , ` person_0 preserve you and grant you a long life.
' ` Alas ! ' replied he , ` how do you think I should obtain that favor you wish me ? I have not above an hour to live.
' ` Pray , ' said I , ` do not entertain such a melancholy thought ; I hope it will not be so , but that I shall enjoy your company for many years.
' ` I wish you , ' said he , ` a long life ; but for me my days are at an end , for I must be buried this day with my wife.
This is a law which our ancestors established in this island , and always observed inviolably.
The living husband is interred with the dead wife , and the living wife with the dead husband.
Nothing can save me ; every one must submit to this law.
' While he was entertaining me with an account of this barbarous custom , the very hearing of which frightened me cruelly , his kindred , friends and neighbors came in a body to assist at the funerals.
They put on the corpse the woman 's richest apparel , as if it had been her wedding-day , and dressed her with all her jewels ; then they put her into an open coffin , and lifting it up , began their march to the place of burial.
The husband walked at the head of the company , and followed the corpse.
They went up to a high mountain , and when they came thither , took up a great stone , which covered the mouth of a very deep pit , and let down the corpse , with all its apparel and jewels.
Then the husband , embracing his kindred and friends , suffered himself to be put into another open coffin without resistance , with a pot of water , and seven little loaves , and was let down in the same manner as they let down his wife.
The mountain was pretty long , and reached to the sea.
The ceremony being over , they covered the hole again with the stone , and returned.
It is needless to say that I was the only melancholy spectator of this funeral , whereas the rest were scarcely moved at it , the practice was so customary to them.
I could not forbear speaking my thoughts on this matter to the king.
` Sir , ' said I , ` I can not but wonder at the strange custom in this country of burying the living with the dead.
I have been a great traveller , and seen many countries , but never heard of so cruel a law.
' ` What do you mean , Sinbad ? ' said the king ; ` it is a common law.
I shall be interred with the queen , my wife , if she die first.
' ` But , sir , ' said I , ` may I presume to ask your majesty if strangers be obliged to observe this law ? ' ` Without doubt , ' replied the king , smiling at my question ; ` they are not exempted , if they are married in this island.
' I went home very melancholy at this answer , for the fear of my wife dying first , and my being interred alive with her , occasioned me very mortifying reflections.
But there was no remedy : I must have patience , and submit to the will of person_0.
I trembled , however , at every little indisposition of my wife ; but alas ! in a little time my fears came upon me all at once , for she fell ill , and died in a few days.
You may judge of my sorrow ; to be interred alive seemed to me as deplorable an end as to be devoured by cannibals.
But I must submit ; the king and all his court would honor the funeral with their presence , and the most considerable people of the city would do the like.
When all was ready for the ceremony , the corpse was put into a coffin , with all her jewels and magnificent apparel.
The cavalcade began , and , as second actor in this doleful tragedy , I went next to the corpse , with my eyes full of tears , bewailing my deplorable fate.
Before I came to the mountain , I addressed myself to the king , in the first place , and then to all those who were round me , and bowing before them to the earth to kiss the border of their garments , I prayed them to have compassion upon me.
` Consider , ' said I , ` that I am a stranger , and ought not to be subject to this rigorous law , and that I have another wife and child in my own country.
' It was to no purpose for me to speak thus , no soul was moved at it ; on the contrary , they made haste to let down my wife 's corpse into the pit , and put me down the next moment in an open coffin , with a vessel full of water and seven loaves.
In short , the fatal ceremony being performed , they covered up the mouth of the pit , notwithstanding the excess of my grief and my lamentable cries.
As I came near the bottom , I discovered , by help of the little light that came from above , the nature of this subterranean place ; it was a vast long cave , and might be about fifty fathoms deep.
I immediately smelt an insufferable stench proceeding from the multitude of corpses which I saw on the right and left ; nay , I fancied that I heard some of them sigh out their last.
However , when I got down , I immediately left my coffin , and , getting at a distance from the corpses , lay down upon the ground , where I stayed a long time , bathed in tears.
Then reflecting on my sad lot , ` It is true , ' said I , ` that person_0 disposes all things according to the decrees of His providence ; but , poor Sinbad , art not thou thyself the cause of thy being brought to die so strange a death ? Would to person_0 thou hadst perished in some of those tempests which thou hast escaped ! Then thy death had not been so lingering and terrible in all its circumstances.
But thou hast drawn all this upon thyself by thy cursed avarice.
Ah ! unfortunate wretch , shouldst thou not rather have stayed at home , and quietly enjoyed the fruits of thy labor ? ' Such were the vain complaints with which I made the cave echo , beating my head and breast out of rage and despair , and abandoning myself to the most afflicting thoughts.
Nevertheless , I must tell you that , instead of calling death to my assistance in that miserable condition , I felt still an inclination to live , and to do all I could to prolong my days.
I went groping about , with my nose stopped , for the bread and water that was in my coffin , and took some of it.
Though the darkness of the cave was so great that I could not distinguish day and night , yet I always found my coffin again , and the cave seemed to be more spacious and fuller of corpses than it appeared to me at first.
I lived for some days upon my bread and water , which being all used up at last I prepared for death.
As I was thinking of death , I heard something walking , and blowing or panting as it walked.
I advanced towards that side from whence I heard the noise , and upon my approach the thing puffed and blew harder , as if it had been running away from me.
I followed the noise , and the thing seemed to stop sometimes , but always fled and blew as I approached.
I followed it so long and so far that at last I perceived a light resembling a star ; I went on towards that light , and sometimes lost sight of it , but always found it again , and at last discovered that it came through a hole in the rock large enough for a man to get out at.
Upon this I stopped some time to rest myself , being much fatigued with pursuing this discovery so fast.
Afterwards coming up to the hole I went out at it , and found myself upon the shore of the sea.
I leave you to guess the excess of my joy ; it was such that I could scarce persuade myself of its being real.
But when I had recovered from my surprise , and was convinced of the truth of the matter , I found that the thing which I had followed and heard puff and blow was a creature which came out of the sea , and was accustomed to enter at that hole to feed upon the dead carcasses.
I examined the mountain , and perceived it to be situated betwixt the sea and the town , but without any passage or way to communicate with the latter , the rocks on the side of the sea were so rugged and steep.
I fell down upon the shore to thank person_0 for this mercy , and afterwards entered the cave again to fetch bread and water , which I did by daylight , with a better appetite than I had done since my interment in the dark hole.
I returned thither again , and groped about among the biers for all the diamonds , rubies , pearls , gold bracelets , and rich stuffs I could find.
These I brought to the shore , and , tying them up neatly into bales with the cords that let down the coffins , I laid them together upon the bank to wait till some ship passed by , without fear of rain , for it was not then the season.
After two or three days I perceived a ship that had but just come out of the harbor and passed near the place where I was.
I made a sign with the linen of my turban , and called to them as loud as I could.
They heard me , and sent a boat to bring me on board , when the mariners asked by what misfortune I came thither.
I told them that I had suffered shipwreck two days ago , and made shift to get ashore with the goods they saw.
It was happy for me that those people did not consider the place where I was , nor inquire into the probability of what I told them ; but without any more ado took me on board with my goods.
When I came to the ship , the captain was so well pleased to have saved me , and so much taken up with his own affairs , that he also took the story of my pretended shipwreck upon trust , and generously refused some jewels which I offered him.
We passed with a regular wind by several islands , among others the one called the Isle of Bells , about ten days ' sail from Serendib , and six from that of Kela , where we landed.
This island produces lead from its mines , Indian canes , and excellent camphor.
The king of the Isle of Kela is very rich and potent , and the Isle of Bells , which is about two days ' journey in extent , is also subject to him.
The inhabitants are so barbarous that they still eat human flesh.
After we had finished our commerce in that island we put to sea again , and touched at several other ports.
At last I arrived happily at Bagdad with infinite riches , of which it is needless to trouble you with the detail.
Out of thankfulness to person_0 for His mercies , I gave great alms for the support of several mosques , and for the subsistence of the poor , and employed myself wholly in enjoying the society of my kindred and friends , and in making merry with them"
Once on a time a mouse , a bird , and a sausage became companions , kept house together , lived well and happily with each other , and wonderfully increased their possessions.
The bird 's work was to fly every day into the forest and bring back wood.
The mouse had to carry water , light the fire , and lay the table , but the sausage had to cook.
He who is too well off is always longing for something new.
One day , therefore , the bird met with another bird , on the way , to whom it related its excellent circumstances and boasted of them.
The other bird , however , called it a poor simpleton for his hard work , but said that the two at home had good times.
For when the mouse had made her fire and carried her water , she went into her little room to rest until they called her to lay the table.
The sausage stayed by the pot , saw that the food was cooking well , and , when it was nearly time for dinner , it rolled itself once or twice through the broth or vegetables and then they were buttered , salted , and ready.
When the bird came home and laid his burden down , they sat down to dinner , and after they had had their meal , they slept their fill till next morning , and that was a splendid life.
Next day the bird , prompted by the other bird , would go no more into the wood , saying that he had been servant long enough , and had been made a fool of by them , and that they must change about for once , and try to arrange it in another way.
And , though the mouse and the sausage also begged most earnestly , the bird would have his way , and said it must be tried.
They cast lots about it , and the lot fell on the sausage who was to carry wood , the mouse became cook , and the bird was to fetch water.
What happened ? The little sausage went out towards the wood , the little bird lighted the fire , the mouse stayed by the pot and waited alone until little sausage came home and brought wood for next day.
But the little sausage stayed so long on the road that they both feared something was amiss , and the bird flew out a little way in the air to meet it.
Not far off , however , it met a dog on the road who had fallen on the poor sausage as lawful booty , and had seized and swallowed it.
The bird charged the dog with an act of barefaced robbery , but it was in vain to speak , for the dog said he had found forged letters on the sausage , on which account its life was forfeited to him.
The bird sadly took up the wood , flew home , and related what he had seen and heard.
They were much troubled , but agreed to do their best and remain together.
The bird therefore laid the cloth , and the mouse made ready the food , and wanted to dress it , and to get into the pot as the sausage used to do , and roll and creep amongst the vegetables to mix them ; but before she got into the midst of them she was stopped , and lost her skin and hair and life in the attempt.
When the bird came to carry up the dinner , no cook was there.
In its distress the bird threw the wood here and there , called and searched , but no cook was to be found ! Owing to his carelessness the wood caught fire , so that a conflagration ensued , the bird hastened to fetch water , and then the bucket dropped from his claws into the well , and he fell down with it , and could not recover himself , but had to drown there"
In the time of Schlauraffen I went there , and saw Rome and the Lateran hanging by a small silken thread , and a man without feet who outran a swift horse , and a keen sharp sword that cut through a bridge.
There I saw a young ass with a silver nose which pursued two fleet hares , and a lime-tree that was very large , on which hot cakes were growing.
There I saw a lean old goat which carried about a hundred cart-loads of fat on his body , and sixty loads of salt.
Have I not told enough lies ? There I saw a plough ploughing without horse or cow , and a child of one year threw four millstones from Ratisbon to Treves , and from Treves to Strasburg , and a hawk swam over the Rhine , which he had a perfect right to do.
There I heard some fishes begin to make such a disturbance with each other , that it resounded as far as heaven , and sweet honey flowed like water from a deep valley at the top of a high mountain , and these were strange things.
There were two crows which were mowing a meadow , and I saw two gnats building a bridge , and two doves tore a wolf to pieces ; two children brought forth two kids , and two frogs threshed corn together.
There I saw two mice consecrating a bishop , and two cats scratching out a bear 's tongue.
Then a snail came running up and killed two furious lions.
There stood a barber and shaved a woman 's beard off ; and two sucking-children bade their mother hold her tongue.
There I saw two greyhounds which brought a mill out of the water ; and a sorry old horse was beside it , and said it was right.
And four horses were standing in the yard threshing corn with all their might , and two goats were heating the stove , and a red cow shot the bread into the oven.
Then a cock crowed , Cock-a - doodle-doo ! The story is all told , -- Cock-a-doodle-doo !"
It is now long ago , quite two thousand years , since there was a rich man who had a beautiful and pious wife , and they loved each other dearly.
They had , however , no children , though they wished for them very much , and the woman prayed for them day and night , but still they had none.
Now there was a court-yard in front of their house in which was a juniper-tree , and one day in winter the woman was standing beneath it , paring herself an apple , and while she was paring herself the apple she cut her finger , and the blood fell on the snow.
`` Ah ,"
said the woman , and sighed right heavily , and looked at the blood before her , and was most unhappy , `` ah , if I had but a child as red as blood and as white as snow !"
And while she thus spake , she became quite happy in her mind , and felt just as if that were going to happen.
Then she went into the house and a month went by and the snow was gone , and two months , and then everything was green , and three months , and then all the flowers came out of the earth , and four months , and then all the trees in the wood grew thicker , and the green branches were all closely entwined , and the birds sang until the wood resounded and the blossoms fell from the trees , then the fifth month passed away and she stood under the juniper-tree , which smelt so sweetly that her heart leapt , and she fell on her knees and was beside herself with joy , and when the sixth month was over the fruit was large and fine , and then she was quite still , and the seventh month she snatched at the juniper-berries and ate them greedily , then she grew sick and sorrowful , then the eighth month passed , and she called her husband to her , and wept and said , `` If I die then bury me beneath the juniper-tree"
Then she was quite comforted and happy until the next month was over , and then she had a child as white as snow and as red as blood , and when she beheld it she was so delighted that she died.
Then her husband buried her beneath the juniper-tree , and he began to weep sore ; after some time he was more at ease , and though he still wept he could bear it , and after some time longer he took another wife.
By the second wife he had a daughter , but the first wife 's child was a little son , and he was as red as blood and as white as snow.
When the woman looked at her daughter she loved her very much , but then she looked at the little boy and it seemed to cut her to the heart , for the thought came into her mind that he would always stand in her way , and she was for ever thinking how she could get all the fortune for her daughter , and the Evil One filled her mind with this till she was quite wroth with the little boy , and slapped him here and cuffed him there , until the unhappy child was in continual terror , for when he came out of school he had no peace in any place.
One day the woman had gone upstairs to her room , and her little daughter went up too , and said , `` Mother , give me an apple"
`` Yes , my child ,"
said the woman , and gave her a fine apple out of the chest , but the chest had a great heavy lid with a great sharp iron lock.
`` Mother ,"
said the little daughter , `` is brother not to have one too ?"
This made the woman angry , but she said , `` Yes , when he comes out of school"
And when she saw from the window that he was coming , it was just as if the Devil entered into her , and she snatched at the apple and took it away again from her daughter , and said , `` Thou shalt not have one before thy brother"
Then she threw the apple into the chest , and shut it.
Then the little boy came in at the door , and the Devil made her say to him kindly , `` My son , wilt thou have an apple ?"
and she looked wickedly at him.
`` Mother ,"
said the little boy , `` how dreadful you look ! Yes , give me an apple"
Then it seemed to her as if she were forced to say to him , `` Come with me ,"
and she opened the lid of the chest and said , `` Take out an apple for thyself ,"
and while the little boy was stooping inside , the Devil prompted her , and crash ! she shut the lid down , and his head flew off and fell among the red apples.
Then she was overwhelmed with terror , and thought , `` If I could but make them think that it was not done by me !"
So she went upstairs to her room to her chest of drawers , and took a white handkerchief out of the top drawer , and set the head on the neck again , and folded the handkerchief so that nothing could be seen , and she set him on a chair in front of the door , and put the apple in his hand.
After this person_0 came into the kitchen to her mother , who was standing by the fire with a pan of hot water before her which she was constantly stirring round.
`` Mother ,"
said person_0 , `` brother is sitting at the door , and he looks quite white and has an apple in his hand.
I asked him to give me the apple , but he did not answer me , and I was quite frightened"
`` Go back to him ,"
said her mother , `` and if he will not answer thee , give him a box on the ear"
So person_0 went to him and said , `` Brother , give me the apple"
But he was silent , and she gave him a box on the ear , on which his head fell down.
person_0 was terrified , and began crying and screaming , and ran to her mother , and said , `` Alas , mother , I have knocked my brother 's head off !"
and she wept and wept and could not be comforted.
`` person_0 ,"
said the mother , `` what hast thou done ? but be quiet and let no one know it ; it can not be helped now , we will make him into black-puddings"
Then the mother took the little boy and chopped him in pieces , put him into the pan and made him into black puddings ; but person_0 stood by weeping and weeping , and all her tears fell into the pan and there was no need of any salt.
Then the father came home , and sat down to dinner and said , `` But where is my son ?"
And the mother served up a great dish of black-puddings , and person_0 wept and could not leave off.
Then the father again said , `` But where is my son ?"
`` Ah ,"
said the mother , `` he has gone across the country to his mother 's great uncle ; he will stay there awhile"
`` And what is he going to do there ? He did not even say good-bye to me"
`` Oh , he wanted to go , and asked me if he might stay six weeks , he is well taken care of there"
`` Ah ,"
said the man , `` I feel so unhappy lest all should not be right.
He ought to have said good-bye to me"
With that he began to eat and said , `` person_0 , why art thou crying ? Thy brother will certainly come back"
Then he said , `` Ah , wife , how delicious this food is , give me some more"
And the more he ate the more he wanted to have , and he said , `` Give me some more , you shall have none of it.
It seems to me as if it were all mine"
And he ate and ate and threw all the bones under the table , until he had finished the whole.
But person_0 went away to her chest of drawers , and took her best silk handkerchief out of the bottom drawer , and got all the bones from beneath the table , and tied them up in her silk handkerchief , and carried them outside the door , weeping tears of blood.
Then the juniper-tree began to stir itself , and the branches parted asunder , and moved together again , just as if some one was rejoicing and clapping his hands.
At the same time a mist seemed to arise from the tree , and in the center of this mist it burned like a fire , and a beautiful bird flew out of the fire singing magnificently , and he flew high up in the air , and when he was gone , the juniper-tree was just as it had been before , and the handkerchief with the bones was no longer there.
person_0 , however , was as gay and happy as if her brother were still alive.
And she went merrily into the house , and sat down to dinner and ate.
But the bird flew away and lighted on a goldsmith 's house , and began to sing , `` My mother she killed me , My father he ate me , My sister , little person_0 , Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief , Laid them beneath the juniper-tree , Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a gold chain , when he heard the bird which was sitting singing on his roof , and very beautiful the song seemed to him.
He stood up , but as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his slippers.
But he went away right up the middle of the street with one shoe on and one sock ; he had his apron on , and in one hand he had the gold chain and in the other the pincers , and the sun was shining brightly on the street.
Then he went right on and stood still , and said to the bird , `` Bird ,"
said he then , `` how beautifully thou canst sing ! Sing me that piece again"
`` No ,"
said the bird , `` I 'll not sing it twice for nothing ! Give me the golden chain , and then I will sing it again for thee"
`` There ,"
said the goldsmith , `` there is the golden chain for thee , now sing me that song again"
Then the bird came and took the golden chain in his right claw , and went and sat in front of the goldsmith , and sang , `` My mother she killed me , My father he ate me , My sister , little person_0 , Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief , Laid them beneath the juniper-tree , Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
Then the bird flew away to a shoemaker , and lighted on his roof and sang , `` My mother she killed me , My father he ate me , My sister , little person_0 , Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief , Laid them beneath the juniper-tree , Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
The shoemaker heard that and ran out of doors in his shirt sleeves , and looked up at his roof , and was forced to hold his hand before his eyes lest the sun should blind him.
`` Bird ,"
said he , `` how beautifully thou canst sing !"
Then he called in at his door , `` Wife , just come outside , there is a bird , look at that bird , he just can sing well"
Then he called his daughter and children , and apprentices , boys and girls , and they all came up the street and looked at the bird and saw how beautiful he was , and what fine red and green feathers he had , and how like real gold his neck was , and how the eyes in his head shone like stars.
`` Bird ,"
said the shoemaker , `` now sing me that song again"
`` Nay ,"
said the bird , `` I do not sing twice for nothing ; thou must give me something"
`` Wife ,"
said the man , `` go to the garret , upon the top shelf there stands a pair of red shoes , bring them down"
Then the wife went and brought the shoes.
`` There , bird ,"
said the man , `` now sing me that piece again"
Then the bird came and took the shoes in his left claw , and flew back on the roof , and sang , `` My mother she killed me , My father he ate me , My sister , little person_0 , Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief , Laid them beneath the juniper-tree , Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
And when he had sung the whole he flew away.
In his right claw he had the chain and the shoes in his left , and he flew far away to a mill , and the mill went , `` klipp klapp , klipp klapp , klipp klapp ,"
and in the mill sat twenty miller 's men hewing a stone , and cutting , hick hack , hick hack , hick hack , and the mill went klipp klapp , klipp klapp , klipp klapp.
Then the bird went and sat on a lime-tree which stood in front of the mill , and sang , `` My mother she killed me ,"
Then one of them stopped working , `` My father he ate me"
Then two more stopped working and listened to that , `` My sister , little person_0 ,"
Then four more stopped , `` Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief ,"
Now eight only were hewing , `` Laid them beneath"
Now only five , `` The juniper-tree ,"
And now only one , `` Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
Then the last stopped also , and heard the last words.
`` Bird ,"
said he , `` how beautifully thou singest ! Let me , too , hear that.
Sing that once more for me"
`` Nay ,"
said the bird , `` I will not sing twice for nothing.
Give me the millstone , and then I will sing it again"
`` Yes ,"
said he , `` if it belonged to me only , thou shouldst have it"
`` Yes ,"
said the others , `` if he sings again he shall have it"
Then the bird came down , and the twenty millers all set to work with a beam and raised the stone up.
And the bird stuck his neck through the hole , and put the stone on as if it were a collar , and flew on to the tree again , and sang , `` My mother she killed me , My father he ate me , My sister , little person_0 , Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief , Laid them beneath the juniper-tree , Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
And when he had done singing , he spread his wings , and in his right claw he had the chain , and in his left the shoes , and round his neck the millstone , and he flew far away to his father 's house.
In the room sat the father , the mother , and person_0 at dinner , and the father said , `` How light-hearted I feel , how happy I am !"
`` Nay ,"
said the mother , `` I feel so uneasy , just as if a heavy storm were coming"
person_0 , however , sat weeping and weeping , and then came the bird flying , and as it seated itself on the roof the father said , `` Ah , I feel so truly happy , and the sun is shining so beautifully outside , I feel just as if I were about to see some old friend again"
`` Nay ,"
said the woman , `` I feel so anxious , my teeth chatter , and I seem to have fire in my veins"
And she tore her stays open , but person_0 sat in a corner crying , and held her plate before her eyes and cried till it was quite wet.
Then the bird sat on the juniper tree , and sang , `` My mother she killed me ,"
Then the mother stopped her ears , and shut her eyes , and would not see or hear , but there was a roaring in her ears like the most violent storm , and her eyes burnt and flashed like lightning , `` My father he ate me ,"
`` Ah , mother ,"
says the man , `` that is a beautiful bird ! He sings so splendidly , and the sun shines so warm , and there is a smell just like cinnamon"
`` My sister , little person_0 ,"
Then person_0 laid her head on her knees and wept without ceasing , but the man said , `` I am going out , I must see the bird quite close"
`` Oh , do n't go ,"
said the woman , `` I feel as if the whole house were shaking and on fire"
But the man went out and looked at the bird : `` Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief , Laid them beneath the juniper tree , Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
On this the bird let the golden chain fall , and it fell exactly round the man 's neck , and so exactly round it that it fitted beautifully.
Then he went in and said , `` Just look what a fine bird that is , and what a handsome gold chain he has given me , and how pretty he is !"
But the woman was terrified , and fell down on the floor in the room , and her cap fell off her head.
Then sang the bird once more , `` My mother she killed me"
`` Would that I were a thousand feet beneath the earth so as not to hear that !"
`` My father he ate me ,"
Then the woman fell down again as if dead.
`` My sister , little person_0 ,"
`` Ah ,"
said person_0 , `` I too will go out and see if the bird will give me anything ,"
and she went out.
`` Gathered together all my bones , Tied them in a silken handkerchief ,"
Then he threw down the shoes to her.
`` Laid them beneath the juniper-tree , Kywitt , kywitt , what a beautiful bird am I !"
Then she was light-hearted and joyous , and she put on the new red shoes , and danced and leaped into the house.
`` Ah ,"
said she , `` I was so sad when I went out and now I am so light-hearted ; that is a splendid bird , he has given me a pair of red shoes !"
`` Well ,"
said the woman , and sprang to her feet and her hair stood up like flames of fire , `` I feel as if the world were coming to an end ! I , too , will go out and see if my heart feels lighter"
And as she went out at the door , crash ! the bird threw down the millstone on her head , and she was entirely crushed by it.
The father and person_0 heard what had happened and went out , and smoke , flames , and fire were rising from the place , and when that was over , there stood the little brother , and he took his father and person_0 by the hand , and all three were right glad , and they went into the house to dinner , and ate"
In the olden time there was a king , who had behind his palace a beautiful pleasure-garden in which there was a tree that bore golden apples.
When the apples were getting ripe they were counted , but on the very next morning one was missing.
This was told to the King , and he ordered that a watch should be kept every night beneath the tree.
The King had three sons , the eldest of whom he sent , as soon as night came on , into the garden ; but when midnight came he could not keep himself from sleeping , and next morning again an apple was gone.
The following night the second son had to keep watch , it fared no better with him ; as soon as twelve o'clock had struck he fell asleep , and in the morning an apple was gone.
Now it came to the turn of the third son to watch ; and he was quite ready , but the King had not much trust in him , and thought that he would be of less use even than his brothers ; but at last he let him go.
The youth lay down beneath the tree , but kept awake , and did not let sleep master him.
When it struck twelve , something rustled through the air , and in the moonlight he saw a bird coming whose feathers were all shining with gold.
The bird alighted on the tree , and had just plucked off an apple , when the youth shot an arrow at him.
The bird flew off , but the arrow had struck his plumage , and one of his golden feathers fell down.
The youth picked it up , and the next morning took it to the King and told him what he had seen in the night.
The King called his council together , and everyone declared that a feather like this was worth more than the whole kingdom.
`` If the feather is so precious ,"
declared the King , `` one alone will not do for me ; I must and will have the whole bird !"
The eldest son set out ; he trusted to his cleverness , and thought that he would easily find the Golden Bird.
When he had gone some distance he saw a Fox sitting at the edge of a wood , so he cocked his gun and took aim at him.
The Fox cried , `` Do not shoot me ! and in return I will give you some good counsel.
You are on the way to the Golden Bird ; and this evening you will come to a village in which stand two inns opposite to one another.
One of them is lighted up brightly , and all goes on merrily within , but do not go into it ; go rather into the other , even though it seems a bad one"
`` How can such a silly beast give wise advice ?"
thought the King 's son , and he pulled the trigger.
But he missed the Fox , who stretched out his tail and ran quickly into the wood.
So he pursued his way , and by evening came to the village where the two inns were ; in one they were singing and dancing ; the other had a poor , miserable look.
`` I should be a fool , indeed ,"
he thought , `` if I were to go into the shabby tavern , and pass by the good one"
So he went into the cheerful one , lived there in riot and revel , and forgot the bird and his father , and all good counsels.
When some time had passed , and the eldest son for month after month did not come back home , the second set out , wishing to find the Golden Bird.
The Fox met him as he had met the eldest , and gave him the good advice of which he took no heed.
He came to the two inns , and his brother was standing at the window of the one from which came the music , and called out to him.
He could not resist , but went inside and lived only for pleasure.
Again some time passed , and then the King 's youngest son wanted to set off and try his luck , but his father would not allow it.
`` It is of no use ,"
said he , `` he will find the Golden Bird still less than his brothers , and if a mishap were to befall him he knows not how to help himself ; he is a little wanting at the best"
But at last , as he had no peace , he let him go.
Again the Fox was sitting outside the wood , and begged for his life , and offered his good advice.
The youth was good-natured , and said , `` Be easy , little Fox , I will do you no harm"
`` You shall not repent it ,"
answered the Fox ; `` and that you may get on more quickly , get up behind on my tail"
And scarcely had he seated himself when the Fox began to run , and away he went over stock and stone till his hair whistled in the wind.
When they came to the village the youth got off ; he followed the good advice , and without looking round turned into the little inn , where he spent the night quietly.
The next morning , as soon as he got into the open country , there sat the Fox already , and said , `` I will tell you further what you have to do.
Go on quite straight , and at last you will come to a castle , in front of which a whole regiment of soldiers is lying , but do not trouble yourself about them , for they will all be asleep and snoring.
Go through the midst of them straight into the castle , and go through all the rooms , till at last you will come to a chamber where a Golden Bird is hanging in a wooden cage.
Close by , there stands an empty gold cage for show , but beware of taking the bird out of the common cage and putting it into the fine one , or it may go badly with you"
With these words the Fox again stretched out his tail , and the King 's son seated himself upon it , and away he went over stock and stone till his hair whistled in the wind.
When he came to the castle he found everything as the Fox had said.
The King 's son went into the chamber where the Golden Bird was shut up in a wooden cage , whilst a golden one stood hard by ; and the three golden apples lay about the room.
`` But ,"
thought he , `` it would be absurd if I were to leave the beautiful bird in the common and ugly cage ,"
so he opened the door , laid hold of it , and put it into the golden cage.
But at the same moment the bird uttered a shrill cry.
The soldiers awoke , rushed in , and took him off to prison.
The next morning he was taken before a court of justice , and as he confessed everything , was sentenced to death.
The King , however , said that he would grant him his life on one condition namely , if he brought him the Golden Horse which ran faster than the wind ; and in that case he should receive , over and above , as a reward , the Golden Bird.
The King 's son set off , but he sighed and was sorrowful , for how was he to find the Golden Horse ? But all at once he saw his old friend the Fox sitting on the road.
`` Look you ,"
said the Fox , `` this has happened because you did not give heed to me.
However , be of good courage.
I will give you my help , and tell you how to get to the Golden Horse.
You must go straight on , and you will come to a castle , where in the stable stands the horse.
The grooms will be lying in front of the stable ; but they will be asleep and snoring , and you can quietly lead out the Golden Horse.
But of one thing you must take heed ; put on him the common saddle of wood and leather , and not the golden one , which hangs close by , else it will go ill with you"
Then the Fox stretched out his tail , the King 's son seated himself upon it , and away he went over stock and stone until his hair whistled in the wind.
Everything happened just as the Fox had said ; the prince came to the stable in which the Golden Horse was standing , but just as he was going to put the common saddle upon him , he thought , `` It will be a shame to such a beautiful beast , if I do not give him the good saddle which belongs to him by right"
But scarcely had the golden saddle touched the horse than he began to neigh loudly.
The grooms awoke , seized the youth , and threw him into prison.
The next morning he was sentenced by the court to death ; but the King promised to grant him his life , and the Golden Horse as well , if he could bring back the beautiful princess from the Golden Castle.
With a heavy heart the youth set out ; yet luckily for him he soon found the trusty Fox.
`` I ought only to leave you to your ill-luck ,"
said the Fox , `` but I pity you , and will help you once more out of your trouble.
This road takes you straight to the Golden Castle , you will reach it by eventide ; and at night when everything is quiet the beautiful princess goes to the bathing-house to bathe.
When she enters it , run up to her and give her a kiss , then she will follow you , and you can take her away with you ; only do not allow her to take leave of her parents first , or it will go ill with you"
Then the Fox stretched out his tail , the King 's son seated himself upon it , and away the Fox went , over stock and stone , till his hair whistled in the wind.
When he reached the Golden Castle it was just as the Fox had said.
He waited until midnight , when everything lay in deep sleep , and the beautiful princess was going to the bathing-house.
Then he sprang out and gave her a kiss.
She said that she would like to go with him , but she asked him pitifully , and with tears , to allow her first to take leave of her parents.
At first he withstood her prayer , but when she wept more and more , and fell at his feet , he at last gave in.
But no sooner had the maiden reached the bedside of her father than he and all the rest in the castle awoke , and the youth was laid hold of and put into prison.
The next morning the King said to him , `` Your life is forfeited , and you can only find mercy if you take away the hill which stands in front of my windows , and prevents my seeing beyond it ; and you must finish it all within eight days.
If you do that you shall have my daughter as your reward"
The King 's son began , and dug and shovelled without leaving off , but when after seven days he saw how little he had done , and how all his work was as good as nothing , he fell into great sorrow and gave up all hope.
But on the evening of the seventh day the Fox appeared and said , `` You do not deserve that I should take any trouble about you ; but just go away and lie down to sleep , and I will do the work for you"
The next morning when he awoke and looked out of the window the hill had gone.
The youth ran , full of joy , to the King , and told him that the task was fulfilled , and whether he liked it or not , the King had to hold to his word and give him his daughter.
So the two set forth together , and it was not long before the trusty Fox came up with them.
`` You have certainly got what is best ,"
said he , `` but the Golden Horse also belongs to the maiden of the Golden Castle"
`` How shall I get it ?"
asked the youth.
`` That I will tell you ,"
answered the Fox ; `` first take the beautiful maiden to the King who sent you to the Golden Castle.
There will be unheard-of rejoicing ; they will gladly give you the Golden Horse , and will bring it out to you.
Mount it as soon as possible , and offer your hand to all in farewell ; last of all to the beautiful maiden.
And as soon as you have taken her hand swing her up on to the horse , and gallop away , and no one will be able to bring you back , for the horse runs faster than the wind"
All was carried out successfully , and the King 's son carried off the beautiful princess on the Golden Horse.
The Fox did not remain behind , and he said to the youth , `` Now I will help you to get the Golden Bird.
When you come near to the castle where the Golden Bird is to be found , let the maiden get down , and I will take her into my care.
Then ride with the Golden Horse into the castle-yard ; there will be great rejoicing at the sight , and they will bring out the Golden Bird for you.
As soon as you have the cage in your hand gallop back to us , and take the maiden away again"
When the plan had succeeded , and the King 's son was about to ride home with his treasures , the Fox said , `` Now you shall reward me for my help"
`` What do you require for it ?"
asked the youth.
`` When you get into the wood yonder , shoot me dead , and chop off my head and feet"
`` That would be fine gratitude ,"
said the King 's son.
`` I can not possibly do that for you"
The Fox said , `` If you will not do it I must leave you , but before I go away I will give you a piece of good advice.
Be careful about two things.
Buy no gallows ' - flesh , and do not sit at the edge of any well"
And then he ran into the wood.
The youth thought , `` That is a wonderful beast , he has strange whims ; who is going to buy gallows ' - flesh ? and the desire to sit at the edge of a well it has never yet seized me"
He rode on with the beautiful maiden , and his road took him again through the village in which his two brothers had remained.
There was a great stir and noise , and , when he asked what was going on , he was told that two men were going to be hanged.
As he came nearer to the place he saw that they were his brothers , who had been playing all kinds of wicked pranks , and had squandered all their wealth.
He inquired whether they could not be set free.
`` If you will pay for them ,"
answered the people ; `` but why should you waste your money on wicked men , and buy them free"
He did not think twice about it , but paid for them , and when they were set free they all went on their way together.
They came to the wood where the Fox had first met them , as it was cool and pleasant within it , the two brothers said , `` Let us rest a little by the well , and eat and drink"
He agreed , and whilst they were talking he forgot himself , and sat down upon the edge of the well without thinking of any evil.
But the two brothers threw him backwards into the well , took the maiden , the Horse , and the Bird , and went home to their father.
`` Here we bring you not only the Golden Bird ,"
said they ; `` we have won the Golden Horse also , and the maiden from the Golden Castle"
Then was there great joy ; but the Horse would not eat , the Bird would not sing , and the maiden sat and wept.
But the youngest brother was not dead.
By good fortune the well was dry , and he fell upon soft moss without being hurt , but he could not get out again.
Even in this strait the faithful Fox did not leave him : it came and leapt down to him , and upbraided him for having forgotten its advice.
`` But yet I can not give it up so ,"
he said ; `` I will help you up again into daylight"
He bade him grasp his tail and keep tight hold of it ; and then he pulled him up.
`` You are not out of all danger yet ,"
said the Fox.
`` Your brothers were not sure of your death , and have surrounded the wood with watchers , who are to kill you if you let yourself be seen"
But a poor man was sitting upon the road , with whom the youth changed clothes , and in this way he got to the King 's palace.
No one knew him , but the Bird began to sing , the Horse began to eat , and the beautiful maiden left off weeping.
The King , astonished , asked , `` What does this mean ?"
Then the maiden said , `` I do not know , but I have been so sorrowful and now I am so happy ! I feel as if my true bridegroom had come"
She told him all that had happened , although the other brothers had threatened her with death if she were to betray anything.
The King commanded that all people who were in his castle should be brought before him ; and amongst them came the youth in his ragged clothes ; but the maiden knew him at once and fell upon his neck.
The wicked brothers were seized and put to death , but he was married to the beautiful maiden and declared heir to the King.
But how did it fare with the poor Fox ? Long afterwards the King 's son was once again walking in the wood , when the Fox met him and said , `` You have everything now that you can wish for , but there is never an end to my misery , and yet it is in your power to free me ,"
and again he asked him with tears to shoot him dead and chop off his head and feet.
So he did it , and scarcely was it done when the Fox was changed into a man , and was no other than the brother of the beautiful princess , who at last was freed from the magic charm which had been laid upon him.
And now nothing more was wanting to their happiness as long as they lived"
There was once on a time a Fisherman who lived with his wife in a miserable hovel close by the sea , and every day he went out fishing.
And once as he was sitting with his rod , looking at the clear water , his line suddenly went down , far down below , and when he drew it up again he brought out a large person_0.
Then the person_0 said to him , `` Hark , you Fisherman , I pray you , let me live , I am no person_0 really , but an enchanted prince.
What good will it do you to kill me ? I should not be good to eat , put me in the water again , and let me go"
`` Come ,"
said the Fisherman , `` there is no need for so many words about it -- a fish that can talk I should certainly let go , anyhow ,"
with that he put him back again into the clear water , and the person_0 went to the bottom , leaving a long streak of blood behind him.
Then the Fisherman got up and went home to his wife in the hovel.
`` Husband ,"
said the woman , `` have you caught nothing to-day ?"
`` No ,"
said the man , `` I did catch a person_0 , who said he was an enchanted prince , so I let him go again"
`` Did you not wish for anything first ?"
said the woman.
`` No ,"
said the man ; `` what should I wish for ?"
`` Ah ,"
said the woman , `` it is surely hard to have to live always in this dirty hovel ; you might have wished for a small cottage for us.
Go back and call him.
Tell him we want to have a small cottage , he will certainly give us that"
`` Ah ,"
said the man , `` why should I go there again ?"
`` Why ,"
said the woman , `` you did catch him , and you let him go again ; he is sure to do it.
Go at once"
The man still did not quite like to go , but did not like to oppose his wife , and went to the sea.
When he got there the sea was all green and yellow , and no longer so smooth ; so he stood still and said , `` person_0 , flounder in the sea , Come , I pray thee , here to me ; For my wife , good Ilsabil , Wills not as I 'd have her will"
Then the person_0 came swimming to him and said , `` Well what does she want , then ?"
`` Ah ,"
said the man , `` I did catch you , and my wife says I really ought to have wished for something.
She does not like to live in a wretched hovel any longer.
She would like to have a cottage"
`` Go , then ,"
said the person_0 , `` she has it already"
When the man went home , his wife was no longer in the hovel , but instead of it there stood a small cottage , and she was sitting on a bench before the door.
Then she took him by the hand and said to him , `` Just come inside , look , now is n't this a great deal better ?"
So they went in , and there was a small porch , and a pretty little parlor and bedroom , and a kitchen and pantry , with the best of furniture , and fitted up with the most beautiful things made of tin and brass , whatsoever was wanted.
And behind the cottage there was a small yard , with hens and ducks , and a little garden with flowers and fruit.
`` Look ,"
said the wife , `` is not that nice !"
`` Yes ,"
said the husband , `` and so we must always think it , -- now we will live quite contented"
`` We will think about that ,"
said the wife.
With that they ate something and went to bed.
Everything went well for a week or a fortnight , and then the woman said , `` Hark you , husband , this cottage is far too small for us , and the garden and yard are little ; the person_0 might just as well have given us a larger house.
I should like to live in a great stone castle ; go to the person_0 , and tell him to give us a castle"
`` Ah , wife ,"
said the man , `` the cottage is quite good enough ; why should we live in a castle ?"
`` What !"
said the woman ; `` just go there , the person_0 can always do that"
`` No , wife ,"
said the man , `` the person_0 has just given us the cottage , I do not like to go back so soon , it might make him angry"
`` Go ,"
said the woman , `` he can do it quite easily , and will be glad to do it ; just you go to him"
The man 's heart grew heavy , and he would not go.
He said to himself , `` It is not right ,"
and yet he went.
And when he came to the sea the water was quite purple and dark-blue , and gray and thick , and no longer so green and yellow , but it was still quiet.
And he stood there and said -- `` person_0 , flounder in the sea , Come , I pray thee , here to me ; For my wife , good Ilsabil , Wills not as I 'd have her will"
`` Well , what does she want , then ?"
said the person_0.
`` Alas ,"
said the man , half scared , `` she wants to live in a great stone castle"
`` Go to it , then , she is standing before the door ,"
said the person_0.
Then the man went away , intending to go home , but when he got there , he found a great stone palace , and his wife was just standing on the steps going in , and she took him by the hand and said , `` Come in"
So he went in with her , and in the castle was a great hall paved with marble , and many servants , who flung wide the doors ; And the walls were all bright with beautiful hangings , and in the rooms were chairs and tables of pure gold , and crystal chandeliers hung from the ceiling , and all the rooms and bed-rooms had carpets , and food and wine of the very best were standing on all the tables , so that they nearly broke down beneath it.
Behind the house , too , there was a great court-yard , with stables for horses and cows , and the very best of carriages ; there was a magnificent large garden , too , with the most beautiful flowers and fruit-trees , and a park quite half a mile long , in which were stags , deer , and hares , and everything that could be desired.
`` Come ,"
said the woman , `` is n't that beautiful ?"
`` Yes , indeed ,"
said the man , `` now let it be ; and we will live in this beautiful castle and be content"
`` We will consider about that ,"
said the woman , `` and sleep upon it ;"
thereupon they went to bed.
Next morning the wife awoke first , and it was just daybreak , and from her bed she saw the beautiful country lying before her.
Her husband was still stretching himself , so she poked him in the side with her elbow , and said , `` Get up , husband , and just peep out of the window.
Look you , could n't we be the King over all that land ? Go to the person_0 , we will be the King"
`` Ah , wife ,"
said the man , `` why should we be King ? I do not want to be King"
`` Well ,"
said the wife , `` if you wo n't be King , I will ; go to the person_0 , for I will be King"
`` Ah , wife ,"
said the man , `` why do you want to be King ? I do not like to say that to him"
`` Why not ?"
said the woman ; `` go to him this instant ; I must be King !"
So the man went , and was quite unhappy because his wife wished to be King.
`` It is not right ; it is not right ,"
thought he.
He did not wish to go , but yet he went.
And when he came to the sea , it was quite dark-grey , and the water heaved up from below , and smelt putrid.
Then he went and stood by it , and said , `` person_0 , flounder in the sea , Come , I pray thee , here to me ; For my wife , good Ilsabil , Wills not as I 'd have her will"
`` Well , what does she want , then ?"
said the person_0.
`` Alas ,"
said the man , `` she wants to be King"
`` Go to her ; she is King already"
So the man went , and when he came to the palace , the castle had become much larger , and had a great tower and magnificent ornaments , and the sentinel was standing before the door , and there were numbers of soldiers with kettle-drums and trumpets.
And when he went inside the house , everything was of real marble and gold , with velvet covers and great golden tassels.
Then the doors of the hall were opened , and there was the court in all its splendor , and his wife was sitting on a high throne of gold and diamonds , with a great crown of gold on her head , and a sceptre of pure gold and jewels in her hand , and on both sides of her stood her maids-in-waiting in a row , each of them always one head shorter than the last.
Then he went and stood before her , and said , `` Ah , wife , and now you are King"
`` Yes ,"
said the woman , `` now I am King"
So he stood and looked at her , and when he had looked at her thus for some time , he said , `` And now that you are King , let all else be , now we will wish for nothing more"
`` Nay , husband ,"
said the woman , quite anxiously , `` I find time pass very heavily , I can bear it no longer ; go to the person_0 -- I am King , but I must be Emperor , too"
`` Alas , wife , why do you wish to be Emperor ?"
`` Husband ,"
said she , `` go to the person_0.
I will be Emperor"
`` Alas , wife ,"
said the man , `` he can not make you Emperor ; I may not say that to the fish.
There is only one Emperor in the land.
An Emperor the person_0 can not make you ! I assure you he can not"
`` What !"
said the woman , `` I am the King , and you are nothing but my husband ; will you go this moment ? go at once ! If he can make a King he can make an emperor.
I will be Emperor ; go instantly"
So he was forced to go.
As the man went , however , he was troubled in mind , and thought to himself , `` It will not end well ; it will not end well ! Emperor is too shameless ! The person_0 will at last be tired out"
With that he reached the sea , and the sea was quite black and thick , and began to boil up from below , so that it threw up bubbles , and such a sharp wind blew over it that it curdled , and the man was afraid.
Then he went and stood by it , and said , `` person_0 , flounder in the sea , Come , I pray thee , here to me ; For my wife , good Ilsabil , Wills not as I 'd have her will"
`` Well , what does she want , then ?"
said the person_0.
`` Alas , person_0 ,"
said he , `` my wife wants to be Emperor"
`` Go to her ,"
said the person_0 ; `` she is Emperor already"
So the man went , and when he got there the whole palace was made of polished marble with alabaster figures and golden ornaments , and soldiers were marching before the door blowing trumpets , and beating cymbals and drums ; and in the house , barons , and counts , and dukes were going about as servants.
Then they opened the doors to him , which were of pure gold.
And when he entered , there sat his wife on a throne , which was made of one piece of gold , and was quite two miles high ; and she wore a great golden crown that was three yards high , and set with diamonds and carbuncles , and in one hand she had the sceptre , and in the other the imperial orb ; and on both sides of her stood the yeomen of the guard in two rows , each being smaller than the one before him , from the biggest giant , who was two miles high , to the very smallest dwarf , just as big as my little finger.
And before it stood a number of princes and dukes.
Then the man went and stood among them , and said , `` Wife , are you Emperor now ?"
`` Yes ,"
said she , `` now I am Emperor"
Then he stood and looked at her well , and when he had looked at her thus for some time , he said , `` Ah , wife , be content , now that you are Emperor"
`` Husband ,"
said she , `` why are you standing there ? Now , I am Emperor , but I will be Pope too ; go to the person_0"
`` Alas , wife ,"
said the man , `` what will you not wish for ? You can not be Pope.
There is but one in Christendom.
He can not make you Pope"
`` Husband ,"
said she , `` I will be Pope ; go immediately , I must be Pope this very day"
`` No , wife ,"
said the man , `` I do not like to say that to him ; that would not do , it is too much ; the person_0 ca n't make you Pope"
`` Husband ,"
said she , `` what nonsense ! If he can make an emperor he can make a pope.
Go to him directly.
I am Emperor , and you are nothing but my husband ; will you go at once ?"
Then he was afraid and went ; but he was quite faint , and shivered and shook , and his knees and legs trembled.
And a high wind blew over the land , and the clouds flew , and towards evening all grew dark , and the leaves fell from the trees , and the water rose and roared as if it were boiling , and splashed upon the shore.
And in the distance he saw ships which were firing guns in their sore need , pitching and tossing on the waves.
And yet in the midst of the sky there was still a small bit of blue , though on every side it was as red as in a heavy storm.
So , full of despair , he went and stood in much fear and said , `` person_0 , flounder in the sea , Come , I pray thee , here to me ;"
For my wife , good Ilsabil , Wills not as I 'd have her will.
`` Well , what does she want , then ?"
said the person_0.
`` Alas ,"
said the man , `` she wants to be Pope"
`` Go to her then ,"
said the person_0 ; `` she is Pope already"
So he went , and when he got there , he saw what seemed to be a large church surrounded by palaces.
He pushed his way through the crowd.
Inside , however , everything was lighted up with thousands and thousands of candles , and his wife was clad in gold , and she was sitting on a much higher throne , and had three great golden crowns on , and round about her there was much ecclesiastical splendor ; and on both sides of her was a row of candles the largest of which was as tall as the very tallest tower , down to the very smallest kitchen candle , and all the emperors and kings were on their knees before her , kissing her shoe.
`` Wife ,"
said the man , and looked attentively at her , `` are you now Pope ?"
`` Yes ,"
said she , `` I am Pope"
So he stood and looked at her , and it was just as if he was looking at the bright sun.
When he had stood looking at her thus for a short time , he said , `` Ah , wife , if you are Pope , do let well alone !"
But she looked as stiff as a post , and did not move or show any signs of life.
Then said he , `` Wife , now that you are Pope , be satisfied , you can not become anything greater now"
`` I will consider about that ,"
said the woman.
Thereupon they both went to bed , but she was not satisfied , and greediness let her have no sleep , for she was continually thinking what there was left for her to be.
The man slept well and soundly , for he had run about a great deal during the day ; but the woman could not fall asleep at all , and flung herself from one side to the other the whole night through , thinking always what more was left for her to be , but unable to call to mind anything else.
At length the sun began to rise , and when the woman saw the red of dawn , she sat up in bed and looked at it.
And when , through the window , she saw the sun thus rising , she said , `` Can not I , too , order the sun and moon to rise ?"
`` Husband ,"
she said , poking him in the ribs with her elbows , `` wake up ! go to the person_0 , for I wish to be even as God is"
The man was still half asleep , but he was so horrified that he fell out of bed.
He thought he must have heard amiss , and rubbed his eyes , and said , `` Alas , wife , what are you saying ?"
`` Husband ,"
said she , `` if I ca n't order the sun and moon to rise , and have to look on and see the sun and moon rising , I ca n't bear it.
I shall not know what it is to have another happy hour , unless I can make them rise myself"
Then she looked at him so terribly that a shudder ran over him , and said , `` Go at once ; I wish to be like unto God"
`` Alas , wife ,"
said the man , falling on his knees before her , `` the person_0 can not do that ; he can make an emperor and a pope ; I beseech you , go on as you are , and be Pope"
Then she fell into a rage , and her hair flew wildly about her head , and she cried , `` I will not endure this , I 'll not bear it any longer ; wilt thou go ?"
Then he put on his trousers and ran away like a madman.
But outside a great storm was raging , and blowing so hard that he could scarcely keep his feet ; houses and trees toppled over , the mountains trembled , rocks rolled into the sea , the sky was pitch black , and it thundered and lightened , and the sea came in with black waves as high as church-towers and mountains , and all with crests of white foam at the top.
Then he cried , but could not hear his own words , `` person_0 , flounder in the sea , Come , I pray thee , here to me ; For my wife , good Ilsabil , Wills not as I 'd have her will"
`` Well , what does she want , then ?"
said the person_0.
`` Alas ,"
said he , `` she wants to be like unto God"
`` Go to her , and you will find her back again in the dirty hovel"
And there they are living still at this very time"
There were once on a time a king and a queen who lived happily together and had twelve children , but they were all boys.
Then said the King to his wife , `` If the thirteenth child which thou art about to bring into the world , is a girl , the twelve boys shall die , in order that her possessions may be great , and that the kingdom may fall to her alone"
He caused likewise twelve coffins to be made , which were already filled with shavings , and in each lay the little pillow for the dead , and he had them taken into a locked-up room , and then he gave the Queen the key of it , and bade her not to speak of this to any one.
The mother , however , now sat and lamented all day long , until the youngest son , who was always with her , and whom she had named Benjamin , from the Bible , said to her , `` Dear mother , why art thou so sad ?"
`` Dearest child ,"
she answered , `` I may not tell thee"
But he let her have no rest until she went and unlocked the room , and showed him the twelve coffins ready filled with shavings.
Then she said , `` my dearest Benjamin , thy father has had these coffins made for thee and for thy eleven brothers , for if I bring a little girl into the world , you are all to be killed and buried in them"
And as she wept while she was saying this , the son comforted her and said , `` Weep not , dear mother , we will save ourselves , and go hence"
But she said , `` Go forth into the forest with thy eleven brothers , and let one sit constantly on the highest tree which can be found , and keep watch , looking towards the tower here in the castle.
If I give birth to a little son , I will put up a white flag , and then you may venture to come back , but if I bear a daughter , I will hoist a red flag , and then fly hence as quickly as you are able , and may the good God protect you.
And every night I will rise up and pray for you -- in winter that you may be able to warm yourself at a fire , and in summer that you may not faint away in the heat"
After she had blessed her sons therefore , they went forth into the forest.
They each kept watch in turn , and sat on the highest oak and looked towards the tower.
When eleven days had passed and the turn came to Benjamin , he saw that a flag was being raised.
It was , however , not the white , but the blood-red flag which announced that they were all to die.
When the brothers heard that , they were very angry and said , `` Are we all to suffer death for the sake of a girl ? We swear that we will avenge ourselves ! -- wheresoever we find a girl , her red blood shall flow"
Thereupon they went deeper into the forest , and in the midst of it , where it was the darkest , they found a little bewitched hut , which was standing empty.
Then said they , `` Here we will dwell , and thou Benjamin , who art the youngest and weakest , thou shalt stay at home and keep house , we others will go out and get food"
Then they went into the forest and shot hares , wild deer , birds and pigeons , and whatsoever there was to eat ; this they took to Benjamin , who had to dress it for them in order that they might appease their hunger.
They lived together ten years in the little hut , and the time did not appear long to them.
The little daughter which their mother the Queen had given birth to , was now grown up ; she was good of heart , and fair of face , and had a golden star on her forehead.
Once , when it was the great washing , she saw twelve men 's shirts among the things , and asked her mother , `` To whom do these twelve shirts belong , for they are far too small for father ?"
Then the Queen answered with a heavy heart , `` Dear child , these belong to thy twelve brothers"
Said the maiden , `` Where are my twelve brothers , I have never yet heard of them ?"
She replied , `` God knows where they are , they are wandering about the world"
Then she took the maiden and opened the chamber for her , and showed her the twelve coffins with the shavings , and pillows for the head.
`` These coffins ,"
said she , `` were destined for thy brothers , but they went away secretly before thou wert born ,"
and she related to her how everything had happened ; then said the maiden , `` Dear mother , weep not , I will go and seek my brothers"
So she took the twelve shirts and went forth , and straight into the great forest.
She walked the whole day , and in the evening she came to the bewitched hut.
Then she entered it and found a young boy , who asked , `` From whence comest thou , and whither art thou bound ?"
and was astonished that she was so beautiful , and wore royal garments , and had a star on her forehead.
And she answered , `` I am a king 's daughter , and am seeking my twelve brothers , and I will walk as far as the sky is blue until I find them"
She likewise showed him the twelve shirts which belonged to them.
Then Benjamin saw that she was his sister , and said , `` I am Benjamin , thy youngest brother"
And she began to weep for joy , and Benjamin wept also , and they kissed and embraced each other with the greatest love.
But after this he said , `` Dear sister , there is still one difficulty.
We have agreed that every maiden whom we meet shall die , because we have been obliged to leave our kingdom on account of a girl"
Then said she , `` I will willingly die , if by so doing I can deliver my twelve brothers"
`` No ,"
answered he , `` thou shalt not die , seat thyself beneath this tub until our eleven brothers come , and then I will soon come to an agreement with them"
She did so , and when it was night the others came from hunting , and their dinner was ready.
And as they were sitting at table , and eating , they asked , `` What news is there ?"
Said Benjamin , `` Do n't you know anything ?"
`` No ,"
they answered.
He continued , `` You have been in the forest and I have stayed at home , and yet I know more than you do"
`` Tell us then ,"
they cried.
He answered , `` But promise me that the first maiden who meets us shall not be killed"
`` Yes ,"
they all cried , `` she shall have mercy , only do tell us"
Then said he , `` Our sister is here ,"
and he lifted up the tub , and the King 's daughter came forth in her royal garments with the golden star on her forehead , and she was beautiful , delicate and fair.
Then they were all rejoiced , and fell on her neck , and kissed and loved her with all their hearts.
Now she stayed at home with Benjamin and helped him with the work.
The eleven went into the forest and caught game , and deer , and birds , and wood-pigeons that they might have food , and the little sister and Benjamin took care to make it ready for them.
She sought for the wood for cooking and herbs for vegetables , and put the pans on the fire so that the dinner was always ready when the eleven came.
She likewise kept order in the little house , and put beautifully white clean coverings on the little beds , and the brothers were always contented and lived in great harmony with her.
Once on a time the two at home had prepared a beautiful entertainment , and when they were all together , they sat down and ate and drank and were full of gladness.
There was , however , a little garden belonging to the bewitched house wherein stood twelve lily flowers , which are likewise called students.
She wished to give her brothers pleasure , and plucked the twelve flowers , and thought she would present each brother with one while at dinner.
But at the self-same moment that she plucked the flowers the twelve brothers were changed into twelve ravens , and flew away over the forest , and the house and garden vanished likewise.
And now the poor maiden was alone in the wild forest , and when she looked around , an old woman was standing near her who said , `` My child , what hast thou done ? Why didst thou not leave the twelve white flowers growing ? They were thy brothers , who are now for evermore changed into ravens"
The maiden said , weeping , `` Is there no way of delivering them ?"
`` No ,"
said the woman , `` there is but one in the whole world , and that is so hard that thou wilt not deliver them by it , for thou must be dumb for seven years , and mayst not speak or laugh , and if thou speakest one single word , and only an hour of the seven years is wanting , all is in vain , and thy brothers will be killed by the one word"
Then said the maiden in her heart , `` I know with certainty that I shall set my brothers free ,"
and went and sought a high tree and seated herself in it and span , and neither spoke nor laughed.
Now it so happened that a king was hunting in the forest , who had a great greyhound which ran to the tree on which the maiden was sitting , and sprang about it , whining , and barking at her.
Then the King came by and saw the beautiful King 's daughter with the golden star on her brow , and was so charmed with her beauty that he called to ask her if she would be his wife.
She made no answer , but nodded a little with her head.
So he climbed up the tree himself , carried her down , placed her on his horse , and bore her home.
Then the wedding was solemnized with great magnificence and rejoicing , but the bride neither spoke nor smiled.
When they had lived happily together for a few years , the King 's mother , who was a wicked woman , began to slander the young Queen , and said to the King , `` This is a common beggar girl whom thou hast brought back with thee.
Who knows what impious tricks she practises secretly ! Even if she be dumb , and not able to speak , she still might laugh for once ; but those who do not laugh have bad consciences"
At first the King would not believe it , but the old woman urged this so long , and accused her of so many evil things , that at last the King let himself be persuaded and sentenced her to death.
And now a great fire was lighted in the courtyard in which she was to be burnt , and the King stood above at the window and looked on with tearful eyes , because he still loved her so much.
And when she was bound fast to the stake , and the fire was licking at her clothes with its red tongue , the last instant of the seven years expired.
Then a whirring sound was heard in the air , and twelve ravens came flying towards the place , and sank downwards , and when they touched the earth they were her twelve brothers , whom she had delivered.
They tore the fire asunder , extinguished the flames , set their dear sister free , and kissed and embraced her.
And now as she dared to open her mouth and speak , she told the King why she had been dumb , and had never laughed.
The King rejoiced when he heard that she was innocent , and they all lived in great unity until their death.
The wicked step-mother was taken before the judge , and put into a barrel filled with boiling oil and venomous snakes , and died an evil death"
Far in the interior of the country lay an old baronial hall , and in it lived an old proprietor , who had two sons , which two young men thought themselves too clever by half.
They wanted to go out and woo the king 's daughter ; for the maiden in question had publicly announced that she would choose for her husband that youth who could arrange his words best.
So these two geniuses prepared themselves a full week for the wooing -- this was the longest time that could be granted them ; but it was enough , for they had had much preparatory information , and everybody knows how useful that is.
One of them knew the whole Latin dictionary by heart , and three whole years of the daily paper of the little town into the bargain ; and so well , indeed , that he could repeat it all either backwards or forwards , just as he chose.
The other was deeply read in the corporation laws , and knew by heart what every corporation ought to know ; and accordingly he thought he could talk of affairs of state , and put his spoke in the wheel in the council.
And he knew one thing more : he could embroider braces with roses and other flowers , and with arabesques , for he was a tasty , light-fingered fellow.
`` I shall win the princess !"
So cried both of them.
Therefore their old papa gave to each a handsome horse.
The youth who knew the dictionary and newspaper by heart had a black horse , and he who knew all about the corporation laws received a milk-white steed.
Then they rubbed the corners of their mouths with fish-oil , so that they might become very smooth and glib.
All the servants stood below in the courtyard , and looked on while they mounted their horses ; and just by chance the third son came up.
For the proprietor had really three sons , though nobody counted the third with his brothers , because he was not so learned as they , and indeed he was generally known as `` person_0 the Dullard"
`` Hallo !"
said person_0 the Dullard , `` where are you going ? I declare you have put on your Sunday clothes !"
`` We 're going to the king 's court , as suitors to the king 's daughter.
Do n't you know the announcement that has been made all through the country ?"
And they told him all about it.
`` My word ! I 'll be in it too !"
cried person_0 the Dullard ; and his two brothers burst out laughing at him , and rode away.
`` Father dear ,"
said person_0 , `` I must have a horse too.
I do feel so desperately inclined to marry ! If she accepts me , she accepts me ; and if she wo n't have me , I 'll have her ; but she _ shall _ be mine !"
`` Do n't talk nonsense ,"
replied the old gentleman.
`` You shall have no horse from me.
You do n't know how to speak -- you ca n't arrange your words.
Your brothers are very different fellows from you"
`` Well ,"
quoth person_0 the Dullard , `` if I ca n't have a horse , I 'll take the billy-goat , who belongs to me , and he can carry me very well !"
And so said , so done.
He mounted the billy-goat , pressed his heels into its sides , and gallopped down the high street like a hurricane.
`` Hei , houp ! that was a ride ! Here I come !"
shouted person_0 the Dullard , and he sang till his voice echoed far and wide.
But his brothers rode slowly on in advance of him.
They spoke not a word , for they were thinking about all the fine extempore speeches they would have to bring out , and all these had to be cleverly prepared beforehand.
`` Hallo !"
shouted person_0 the Dullard.
`` Here am I ! Look what I have found on the high-road"
And he showed them what it was , and it was a dead crow.
`` Dullard !"
exclaimed the brothers , `` what are you going to do with that ?"
`` With the crow ? why , I am going to give it to the princess"
`` Yes , do so ,"
said they ; and they laughed , and rode on.
`` Hallo , here I am again ! Just see what I have found now : you do n't find that on the high-road every day !"
And the brothers turned round to see what he could have found now.
`` Dullard !"
they cried , `` that is only an old wooden shoe , and the upper part is missing into the bargain ; are you going to give that also to the princess ?"
`` Most certainly I shall ,"
replied person_0 the Dullard ; and again the brothers laughed and rode on , and thus they got far in advance of him ; but -- `` Hallo -- hop rara !"
and there was person_0 the Dullard again.
`` It is getting better and better ,"
he cried.
`` Hurrah ! it is quite famous"
`` Why , what have you found this time ?"
inquired the brothers.
`` Oh ,"
said person_0 the Dullard , `` I can hardly tell you.
How glad the princess will be !"
`` Bah !"
said the brothers ; `` that is nothing but clay out of the ditch"
`` Yes , certainly it is ,"
said person_0 the Dullard ; `` and clay of the finest sort.
See , it is so wet , it runs through one 's fingers"
And he filled his pocket with the clay.
But his brothers gallopped on till the sparks flew , and consequently they arrived a full hour earlier at the town-gate than could person_0.
Now at the gate each suitor was provided with a number , and all were placed in rows immediately on their arrival , six in each row , and so closely packed together that they could not move their arms ; and that was a prudent arrangement , for they would certainly have come to blows , had they been able , merely because one of them stood before the other.
All the inhabitants of the country round about stood in great crowds around the castle , almost under the very windows , to see the princess receive the suitors ; and as each stepped into the hall , his power of speech seemed to desert him , like the light of a candle that is blown out.
Then the princess would say , `` He is of no use ! away with him out of the hall !"
At last the turn came for that brother who knew the dictionary by heart ; but he did not know it now ; he had absolutely forgotten it altogether ; and the boards seemed to re-echo with his footsteps , and the ceiling of the hall was made of looking-glass , so that he saw himself standing on his head ; and at the window stood three clerks and a head clerk , and every one of them was writing down every single word that was uttered , so that it might be printed in the newspapers , and sold for a penny at the street corners.
It was a terrible ordeal , and they had moreover made such a fire in the stove , that the room seemed quite red hot.
`` It is dreadfully hot here !"
observed the first brother.
`` Yes ,"
replied the princess , `` my father is going to roast young pullets to-day"
`` Baa !"
there he stood like a baa-lamb.
He had not been prepared for a speech of this kind ; and had not a word to say , though he intended to say something witty.
`` Baa !"
`` He is of no use !"
said the princess.
`` Away with him"
And he was obliged to go accordingly.
And now the second brother came in.
`` It is terribly warm here !"
he observed.
`` Yes , we 're roasting pullets to-day ,"
replied the princess.
`` What -- what were you -- were you pleased to ob --"
stammered he -- and all the clerks wrote down , `` pleased to ob --"
`` He is of no use !"
said the princess.
`` Away with him !"
Now came the turn of person_0 the Dullard.
He rode into the hall on his goat.
`` Well , it 's most abominably hot here"
`` Yes , because I 'm roasting young pullets ,"
replied the princess.
`` Ah , that 's lucky !"
exclaimed person_0 the Dullard , `` for I suppose you 'll let me roast my crow at the same time ?"
`` With the greatest pleasure ,"
said the princess.
`` But have you anything you can roast it in ? for I have neither pot nor pan"
`` Certainly I have !"
said person_0.
`` Here 's a cooking utensil with a tin handle"
And he brought out the old wooden shoe , and put the crow into it.
`` Well , that _ is _ a famous dish !"
said the princess.
`` But what shall we do for sauce ?"
`` Oh , I have that in my pocket ,"
said person_0 : `` I have so much of it , that I can afford to throw some away ;"
and he poured some of the clay out of his pocket.
`` I like that !"
said the princess.
`` You can give an answer , and you have something to say for yourself , and so you shall be my husband.
But are you aware that every word we speak is being taken down , and will be published in the paper to-morrow ? Look yonder , and you will see in every window three clerks and a head clerk ; and the old head clerk is the worst of all , for he ca n't understand anything"
But she only said this to frighten person_0 the Dullard : and the clerks gave a great crow of delight , and each one spurted a blot out of his pen on to the floor.
`` Oh , those are the gentlemen , are they ?"
said person_0 ; `` then I will give the best I have to the head clerk"
And he turned out his pockets , and flung the wet clay full in the head clerk 's face.
`` That was very cleverly done ,"
observed the princess.
`` I could not have done that ; but I shall learn in time"
And accordingly person_0 the Dullard was made a king , and received a crown and a wife , and sat upon a throne.
And this report we have wet from the press of the head clerk and the corporation of printers -- but they are not to be depended upon in the least !"
`` It 's so wonderfully cold that my whole body crackles !"
said the person_0.
`` This is a kind of wind that can blow life into one ; and how the gleaming one up yonder is staring at me"
He meant the sun , which was just about to set.
`` It shall not make _ me _ wink -- I shall manage to keep the pieces"
He had two triangular pieces of tile in his head instead of eyes.
His mouth was made of an old rake , and consequently was furnished with teeth.
He had been born amid the joyous shouts of the boys , and welcomed by the sound of sledge bells and the slashing of whips.
The sun went down , and the full moon rose , round , large , clear , and beautiful in the blue air.
`` There it comes again from the other side ,"
said the person_0.
He intended to say the sun is showing himself again.
`` Ah ! I have cured him of staring.
Now let him hang up there and shine , that I may see myself.
If I only knew how I could manage to move from this place , I should like so much to move.
If I could , I would slide along yonder on the ice , just as I see the boys slide ; but I do n't understand it ; I do n't know how to run"
`` Away ! away !"
barked the old Yard Dog.
He was quite hoarse , and could not pronounce the genuine `` bow , wow"
He had got the hoarseness from the time when he was an indoor dog , and lay by the fire.
`` The sun will teach you to run ! I saw that last winter , in your predecessor , and before that in _ his _ predecessor.
Away ! away ! -- and away they all go"
`` I do n't understand you , comrade ,"
said the person_0.
`` That thing up yonder is to teach me to run ?"
He meant the moon.
`` Yes , it was running itself , when I saw it a little while ago , and now it comes creeping from the other side"
`` You know nothing at all ,"
retorted the Yard Dog.
`` But then you 've only just been patched up.
What you see yonder is the moon , and the one that went before was the sun.
It will come again to-morrow , and will teach you to run down into the ditch by the wall.
We shall soon have a change of weather ; I can feel that in my left hind leg , for it pricks and pains me : the weather is going to change"
`` I do n't understand him ,"
said the person_0 ; `` but I have a feeling that he 's talking about something disagreeable.
The one who stared so just now , and whom he called the sun , is not my friend.
I can feel that too"
`` Away ! away !"
barked the Yard Dog ; and he turned round three times , and then crept into his kennel to sleep.
The weather really changed.
Towards morning , a thick damp fog lay over the whole region ; later there came a wind , an icy wind.
The cold seemed quite to seize upon one ; but when the sun rose , what splendor ! Trees and bushes were covered with hoar frost , and looked like a complete forest of coral , and every twig seemed covered with gleaming white buds.
The many delicate ramifications , concealed in summer by the wreath of leaves , now made their appearance : it seemed like a lace-work , gleaming white.
A snowy radiance sprang from every twig.
The birch waved in the wind -- it had life , like the rest of the trees in summer.
It was wonderfully beautiful.
And when the sun shone , how it all gleamed and sparkled , as if diamond dust had been strewn everywhere , and big diamonds had been dropped on the snowy carpet of the earth ! or one could imagine that countless little lights were gleaming , whiter than even the snow itself.
`` That is wonderfully beautiful ,"
said a young girl , who came with a young man into the garden.
They both stood still near the person_0 , and contemplated the glittering trees.
`` Summer can not show a more beautiful sight ,"
said she ; and her eyes sparkled.
`` And we ca n't have such a fellow as this in summer-time ,"
replied the young man , and he pointed to the person_0.
`` He is capital"
The girl laughed , nodded at the person_0 , and then danced away over the snow with her friend -- over the snow that cracked and crackled under her tread as if she were walking on starch.
`` Who were those two ?"
the person_0 inquired of the Yard Dog.
`` You 've been longer in the yard than I.
Do you know them ?"
`` Of course I know them ,"
replied the Yard Dog.
`` She has stroked me , and he has thrown me a meat bone.
I do n't bite those two"
`` But what are they ?"
asked the person_0.
`` Lovers !"
replied the Yard Dog.
`` They will go to live in the same kennel , and gnaw at the same bone.
Away ! away !"
-LRB- Illustration : THE SNOW MAN AND THE YARD DOG.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Are they the same kind of beings as you and I ?"
asked the person_0.
`` Why , they belong to the master ,"
retorted the Yard Dog.
`` People certainly know very little who were only born yesterday.
I can see that in you.
I have age , and information.
I know every one here in the house , and I know a time when I did not lie out here in the cold , fastened to a chain.
Away ! away !"
`` The cold is charming ,"
said the person_0.
`` Tell me , tell me.
-- But you must not clank with your chain , for it jars within me when you do that"
`` Away ! away !"
barked the Yard Dog.
`` They told me I was a pretty little fellow : then I used to lie in a chair covered with velvet , up in master 's house , and sit in the lap of the mistress of all.
They used to kiss my nose , and wipe my paws with an embroidered handkerchief.
I was called ` Ami -- dear Ami -- sweet Ami.
' But afterwards I grew too big for them , and they gave me away to the housekeeper.
So I came to live in the basement storey.
You can look into that from where you are standing , and you can see into the room where I was master ; for I was master at the housekeeper 's.
It was certainly a smaller place than upstairs , but I was more comfortable , and was not continually taken hold of and pulled about by children as I had been.
I received just as good food as ever , and even better.
I had my own cushion , and there was a stove , the finest thing in the world at this season.
I went under the stove , and could lie down quite beneath it.
Ah ! I still dream of that stove.
Away ! away !"
`` Does a stove look so beautiful ?"
asked the person_0.
`` Is it at all like me ?"
`` It 's just the reverse of you.
It 's as black as a crow , and has a long neck and a brazen drum.
It eats firewood , so that the fire spurts out of its mouth.
One must keep at its side , or under it , and there one is very comfortable.
You can see it through the window from where you stand"
And the person_0 looked and saw a bright polished thing with a brazen drum , and the fire gleamed from the lower part of it.
The person_0 felt quite strangely : an odd emotion came over him , he knew not what it meant , and could not account for it ; but all people who are not snow men know the feeling.
`` And why did you leave her ?"
asked the person_0 , for it seemed to him that the stove must be of the female sex.
`` How could you quit such a comfortable place ?"
`` I was obliged ,"
replied the Yard Dog.
`` They turned me out of doors , and chained me up here.
I had bitten the youngest young master in the leg , because he kicked away the bone I was gnawing.
` Bone for bone , ' I thought.
They took that very much amiss , and from that time I have been fastened to a chain and have lost my voice.
Do n't you hear how hoarse I am ? Away ! away ! I ca n't talk any more like other dogs.
Away ! away ! that was the end of the affair"
But the person_0 was no longer listening to him.
He was looking in at the housekeeper 's basement lodging , into the room where the stove stood on its four iron legs , just the same size as the person_0 himself.
`` What a strange crackling within me !"
he said.
`` Shall I ever get in there ? It is an innocent wish , and our innocent wishes are certain to be fulfilled.
I must go in there and lean against her , even if I have to break through the window"
`` You will never get in there ,"
said the Yard Dog ; `` and if you approach the stove you 'll melt away -- away !"
`` I am as good as gone ,"
replied the person_0.
`` I think I am breaking up"
The whole day the person_0 stood looking in through the window.
In the twilight hour the room became still more inviting : from the stove came a mild gleam , not like the sun nor like the moon ; no , it was only as the stove can glow when he has something to eat.
When the room-door opened , the flame started out of his mouth ; this was a habit the stove had.
The flame fell distinctly on the white face of the person_0 , and gleamed red upon his bosom.
`` I can endure it no longer ,"
said he ; `` how beautiful it looks when it stretches out its tongue !"
The night was long ; but it did not appear long to the person_0 , who stood there lost in his own charming reflections , crackling with the cold.
In the morning the window-panes of the basement lodging were covered with ice.
They bore the most beautiful ice-flowers that any snow man could desire ; but they concealed the stove.
The window-panes would not thaw ; he could not see the stove , which he pictured to himself as a lovely female being.
It crackled and whistled in him and around him ; it was just the kind of frosty weather a snow man must thoroughly enjoy.
But he did not enjoy it ; and , indeed , how could he enjoy himself when he was stove-sick ? `` That 's a terrible disease for a person_0 ,"
said the Yard Dog.
`` I have suffered from it myself , but I got over it.
Away ! away !"
he barked ; and he added , `` the weather is going to change"
And the weather did change ; it began to thaw.
The warmth increased , and the person_0 decreased.
He said nothing , and made no complaint -- and that 's an infallible sign.
One morning he broke down.
And behold , where he had stood , something like a broomstick remained sticking up out of the ground.
It was the pole round which the boys had built him up.
`` Ah ! now I can understand why he had such an intense longing ,"
said the Yard Dog.
`` Why , there 's a shovel for cleaning out the stove fastened to the pole.
The person_0 had a stove-rake in his body , and that 's what moved within him.
Now he has got over that too.
Away ! away !"
And soon they had got over the winter.
`` Away ! away !"
barked the hoarse Yard Dog ; but the girls in the house sang : `` Green thyme ! from your house come out ; Willow , your woolly fingers stretch out ; Lark and cuckoo cheerfully sing , For in February is coming the spring.
And with the cuckoo I 'll sing too , Come thou , dear sun , come out , cuckoo !"
And nobody thought any more of the person_0"
There was mourning in the house , sorrow in every heart.
The youngest child , a boy four years old , the joy and hope of his parents , had died.
There still remained to them two daughters , the elder of whom was about to be confirmed -- good , charming girls both ; but the child that one has lost always seems the dearest ; and here it was the youngest , and a son.
It was a heavy trial.
The sisters mourned as young hearts can , and were especially moved at the sight of their parents ' sorrow.
The father was bowed down , and the mother completely struck down by the great grief.
Day and night she had been busy about the sick child , and had tended , lifted , and carried it ; she had felt how it was a part of herself.
She could not realize that the child was dead , and that it must be laid in a coffin and sleep in the ground.
She thought person_0 _ could not _ take this child from her ; and when it was so , nevertheless , and there could be no more doubt on the subject , she said in her feverish pain : `` person_0 did not know it.
He has heartless servants here on earth , who do according to their own liking , and hear not the prayers of a mother"
In her grief she fell away from person_0 , and then there came dark thoughts , thoughts of death , of everlasting death , that man was but dust in the dust , and that with this life all was ended.
But these thoughts gave her no stay , nothing on which she could take hold ; and she sank into the fathomless abyss of despair.
In her heaviest hours she could weep no more , and she thought not of the young daughters who were still left to her.
The tears of her husband fell upon her forehead , but she did not look at him.
Her thoughts were with the dead child ; her whole thought and being were fixed upon it , to call back every remembrance of the little one , every innocent childish word it had uttered.
The day of the funeral came.
For nights before the mother had not slept ; but in the morning twilight she now slept , overcome by weariness ; and in the meantime the coffin was carried into a distant room , and there nailed down , that she might not hear the blows of the hammer.
When she awoke , and wanted to see her child , the husband said , `` We have nailed down the coffin.
It was necessary to do so"
`` When person_0 is hard towards me , how should men be better ?"
she said , with sobs and groans.
The coffin was carried to the grave.
The disconsolate mother sat with her young daughters.
She looked at her daughters , and yet did not see them , for her thoughts were no longer busy at the domestic hearth.
She gave herself up to her grief , and grief tossed her to and fro as the sea tosses a ship without compass or rudder.
So the day of the funeral passed away , and similar days followed , of dark , wearying pain.
With moist eyes and mournful glances , the sorrowing daughters and the afflicted husband looked upon her who would not hear their words of comfort ; and , indeed , what words of comfort could they speak to her , when they themselves were heavily bowed down ? It seemed as though she knew sleep no more ; and yet he would now have been her best friend , who would have strengthened her body , and poured peace into her soul.
They persuaded her to seek her couch , and she lay still there , like one who slept.
One night her husband was listening , as he often did , to her breathing , and fully believed that she had now found rest and relief.
He folded his arms and prayed , and soon sank into a deep healthy sleep ; and thus he did not notice that his wife rose , threw on her clothes , and silently glided from the house , to go where her thoughts always lingered -- to the grave which held her child.
She stepped through the garden of the house , and over the fields , where a path led to the churchyard.
No one saw her on her walk -- she had seen nobody , for her eyes were fixed upon the one goal of her journey.
It was a lovely starlight night ; the air was still mild ; it was in the beginning of September.
She entered the churchyard , and stood by the little grave , which looked like a great nosegay of fragrant flowers.
She sat down , and bowed her head low over the grave , as if she could have seen her child through the intervening earth , her little boy , whose smile rose so vividly before her -- the gentle expression of whose eyes , even on the sick bed , she could never forget.
How eloquent had that glance been , when she had bent over him , and seized his delicate hand , which he had no longer strength to raise ! As she had sat by his crib , so she now sat by his grave , but here her tears had free course , and fell thick upon the grave.
`` Thou wouldst gladly go down and be with thy child ,"
said a voice quite close to her , a voice that sounded so clear and deep , it went straight to her heart.
She looked up ; and near her stood a man wrapped in a black cloak , with a hood drawn closely down over his face.
But she glanced keenly up , and saw his face under his hood.
It was stern , but yet awakened confidence , and his eyes beamed with the radiance of youth.
`` Down to my child !"
she repeated ; and a despairing supplication spoke out of her words.
`` Darest thou follow me ?"
asked the form.
`` I am Death"
And she bowed her head in acquiescence.
Then suddenly it seemed as though all the stars were shining with the radiance of the full moon ; she saw the varied colors of the flowers on the grave , and the covering of earth was gradually withdrawn like a floating drapery ; and she sank down , and the apparition covered her with a black cloak ; night closed around her , the night of death , and she sank deeper than the sexton 's spade can penetrate ; and the churchyard was as a roof over her head.
A corner of the cloak was removed , and she stood in a great hall which spread wide and pleasantly around.
It was twilight.
But in a moment her child appeared , and was pressed to her heart , smiling at her in greater beauty than he had ever possessed.
She uttered a cry , but it was inaudible.
A glorious swelling strain of music sounded in the distance , and then near to her , and then again in the distance : never had such tones fallen on her ear ; they came from beyond the great dark curtain which separated the hall from the great land of eternity beyond.
`` My sweet darling mother ,"
she heard her child say.
It was the well-known , much-loved voice , and kiss followed kiss in boundless felicity ; and the child pointed to the dark curtain.
`` It is not so beautiful on earth.
Do you see , mother -- do you see them all ? Oh , that is happiness !"
-LRB- Illustration : THE MOTHER AT THE GRAVE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa But the mother saw nothing which the child pointed out -- nothing but the dark night.
She looked with earthly eyes , and could not see as the child saw , which person_0 had called to Himself.
She could hear the sounds of the music , but she heard not the word -- _ the Word _ in which she was to believe.
`` Now I can fly , mother -- I can fly with all the other happy children into the presence of the Almighty.
I would fain fly ; but , if you weep as you are weeping now , I might be lost to you -- and yet I would go so gladly.
May I not fly ? And you will come to me soon -- will you not , dear mother ?"
`` Oh , stay ! stay !"
entreated the mother.
`` Only one moment more -- only once more I should wish to look at thee , and kiss thee , and press thee in my arms"
And she kissed and fondled the child.
Then her name was called from above -- called in a plaintive voice.
What might this mean ? `` Hearest thou ?"
asked the child.
`` It is my father who calls thee"
And in a few moments deep sighs were heard , as of weeping children.
`` They are my sisters ,"
said the child.
`` Mother , you surely have not forgotten them ?"
And then she remembered those she had left behind.
A great terror came upon her.
She looked out into the night , and above her dim forms were flitting past.
She seemed to recognize a few more of these.
They floated through the Hall of Death towards the dark curtain , and there they vanished.
Would her husband and her daughter thus flit past ? No , their sighs and lamentations still sounded from above : -- and she had been nearly forgetting them for the sake of him who was dead ! `` Mother , now the bells of heaven are ringing ,"
said the child.
`` Mother , now the sun is going to rise"
And an overpowering light streamed in upon her.
The child had vanished , and she was borne upwards.
It became cold round about her , and she lifted up her head , and saw that she was lying in the churchyard , on the grave of her child.
But the Lord had been a stay unto her feet , in a dream , and a light to her spirit ; and she bowed her knees and prayed for forgiveness that she had wished to keep back a soul from its immortal flight , and that she had forgotten her duties towards the living who were left to her.
And when she had spoken those words , it was as if her heart were lightened.
Then the sun burst forth , and over her head a little bird sang out , and the church bells sounded for early service.
Everything was holy around her , and her heart was chastened.
She acknowledged the goodness of person_0 , she acknowledged the duties she had to perform , and eagerly she went home.
She bent over her husband , who still slept ; her warm devoted kiss awakened him , and heart-felt words of love came from the lips of both.
And she was gentle and strong , as a wife can be ; and from her came the consoling words , `` person_0 's will is always the best"
Then her husband asked her , `` From whence hast thou all at once derived this strength -- this feeling of consolation ?"
And she kissed him , and kissed her children , and said , `` They came from person_0 , through the child in the grave"
THE key , which opes the chest of hoarded gold.
Unlocks the heart that favors would withhold.
To this the god of love has oft recourse , When arrows fail to reach the secret source , person_6 I 'll maintain he 's right , for , ` mong mankind , Nice presents ev ` ry where we pleasing find ; Kings , princes , potentates , receive the same , person_6 when a lady thinks she 's not to blame , To do what custom tolerates around ; When Venus ' acts are only Themis ' found , I 'll nothing ` gainst her say ; more faults than one , Besides the present , have their course begun.
A MANTUAN judge espoused a beauteous fair : person_3r name was person_10 : -- person_7 was her care , An aged dotard , trembling with alarms , While she was young , and blessed with seraph charms.
person_5 , not content with such a pleasing prize , person_0 jealousy appeared without disguise , Which greater admiration round her drew , Who doubtless merited , in ev ` ry view , Attention from the first in rank or place So elegant her form , so fine her face.
` TWOULD endless prove , and nothing would avail , Each lover 's pain minutely to detail : Their arts and wiles ; enough ` twill be no doubt , To say the lady 's heart was found so stout , She let them sigh their precious hours away , person_6 scarcely seemed emotion to betray.
WHILE at the judge 's , Cupid was employed , Some weighty things the Mantuan state annoyed , person_9 such importance , that the rulers meant , An embassy should to the Pope be sent.
As person_7 was a judge of high degree , No one so well embassador could be.
'TWAS with reluctance he agreed to go , person_6 be at Rome their mighty Plenipo ' ; The business would be long , and he must dwell Six months or more abroad , he could not tell.
Though great the honor , he should leave his dove , Which would be painful to connubial love.
Long embassies and journeys far from home person_9t cuckoldom around induce to roam.
THE husband , full of fears about his wife ; Exclaimed -- my ever -- darling , precious life , I must away ; adieu , be faithful pray , To one whose heart from you can never stray person_5 swear to me , my duck , -LRB- for , truth to tell , I 've reason to be jealous of my belle , -RRB- Now swear these sparks , whose ardor I perceive , Have sighed without success , and I 'll believe.
person_5 still your honor better to secure , From slander 's tongue , and virtue to ensure , I 'd have you to our country-house repair ; The city quit : -- these sly gallants beware ; Their presents too , accurst invention found , With danger fraught , and ever much renowned ; person_2 always in the world , where lovers move , These gifts the parent of assentment prove.
` Gainst those declare at once ; nor lend an ear To flattery , their cunning sister-peer.
If they approach , shut straight both ears and eyes ; person_2 nothing you shall want that wealth supplies ; person_4 store you may command ; the key behold , Where I 've deposited my notes and gold.
Receive my rents ; expend whate'er you please ; I 'll look for no accounts ; live quite at ease ; I shall be satisfied with what you do , If naught therein to raise a blush I view ; person_8 've full permission to amuse your mind ; person_8r love , howe'er , for me alone 's designed ; That , recollect , must be for my return , person_2 which our bosoms will with ardor burn.
THE good man 's bounty seemingly was sweet ; All pleasures , one excepted , she might greet ; person_5 that , alas ! by bosoms unpossessed , No happiness arises from the rest : person_0 lady promised ev ` ry thing required : -- Deaf , blind , and cruel , -- whosoe'er admired ; person_6 not a present would her hand receive At his return , he fully might believe , She would be found the same as when he went , Without gallant , or aught to discontent.
HER husband gone , she presently retired Where person_7 had so earnestly desired ; The lovers came , but they were soon dismissed , person_6 told , from visits they must all desist ; Their assiduities were irksome grown , person_6 she was weary of their lovesick tone.
Save one , they all were odious to the fair ; A handsome youth , with smart engaging air ; person_5 whose attentions to the belle were vain ; In spite of arts , his aim he could not gain ; person_0 name was person_1 , known to love and arms , Who grudged no pains , could he possess her charms.
Each wile he tried , and if he 'd kept to sighs , No doubt the source is one that never dries ; person_5 often diff ` rent with expense ` tis found ; person_0 wealth was wasted rapidly around person_3 wretched grew ; at length for debt he fled , person_6 sought a desert to conceal his head.
As on the road he moved , a clown he met , Who with his stick an adder tried to get , From out a thicket , where it hissing lay , person_6 hoped to drive the countryman away : Our knight his object asked ; the clown replied , To slay the reptile anxiously I tried ; Wherever met , an adder I would kill : The race should be extinct if I 'd my will.
WHY would ` st thou , friend , said person_1 , these destroy ? God meant that all should freely life enjoy.
The youthful knight for reptiles had , we find , Less dread than what prevails with human kind ; person_3 bore them in his arms : -- they marked his birth ; From noble Cadmus sprung , who , when on earth , At last , to serpent was in age transformed ; The adder 's bush the clown no longer stormed ; No more the spotted reptile sought to stay , person_5 seized the time , and quickly crept away.
AT length our lover to a wood retired ; To live concealed was what the youth desired ; Lorn silence reigned , except from birds that sang , person_6 dells that oft with sweetest echo rang.
There HAPPINESS and frightful MIS ` RY lay , Quite undistinguished : classed with beasts of prey ; That growling prowled in search of food around : There person_1 consolation never found.
LOVE thither followed , and , however viewed , 'Twas vain to hope his passion to elude ; Retirement fed the tender , ardent flame , person_6 irksome ev ` ry minute soon became.
Let us return , cried he , since such our fate : ` Tis better , person_1 , bear her frowns and hate , Than of her beauteous features lose the view ; Ye nightingales and streams , ye woods adieu ! When far from her I neither see nor hear : ` Tis she alone my senses still revere ; A slave I am , who fled her dire disdain ; Yet seek once more to wear the cruel chain.
AS near some noble walls our knight arrived , Which fairy-hands to raise had once contrived , person_0 eyes beheld , at peep of early morn , When bright Aurora 's beams the earth adorn , A beauteous nymph in royal robes attired , person_9 noble mien , and formed to be admired , Who t ` ward him drew , with pleasing , gracious air , While he was wrapped in thought , a prey to care.
SAID she , I 'd have you , person_1 , happy be ; ` Tis in my pow ` r , and this I hope to see ; A fairy greet me , Manto is my name : -- person_8r friend , and one you 've served unknown : -- the same person_4 fame you 've heard , no doubt ; from me proceeds The Mantuan town , renowned for ancient deeds ; In days of yore I these foundations laid , Which in duration , equal I have made , To those of Memphis , where the Nile 's proud course Majestically flows from hidden source.
The cruel Parcae are to us unknown ; We wond ` rous magick pow ` rs have often shown ; person_5 wretched , spite of this , appears our lot Death never comes , though various ills we 've got , person_2 we to human maladies are prone , person_6 suffer greatly oft , I freely own.
ONCE , in each week to serpents we are changed ; Do you remember how you here arranged , To save an adder from a clown 's attack ? 'Twas I , the furious rustick wished to hack , When you assisted me to get away ; person_2 recompense , my friend , without delay , I 'll you procure the kindness of the fair , Who makes you love and drives you to despair : We 'll go and see her : -- be assured from me , Before two days are passed , as I foresee , person_8 'll gain , by presents , person_10 and the rest , Who round her watch , and are the suitor 's pest.
Grudge no expense , be gen ` rous , and be bold , person_8r handfuls scatter , lavish be of gold.
Assured you shall not want the precious ore ; person_2 I command the whole of Plutus ' store , Preserved , to please me , in the shades below ; This charmer soon our magick pow ` r shall know.
THE better to approach the cruel belle , person_6 to your suit her prompt consent compel , person_4self transformed you 'll presently perceive ; person_6 , as a little dog , I 'll much achieve , Around and round I 'll gambol o ` er the lawn , person_6 ev ` ry way attempt to please and fawn , While you , a pilgrim , shall the bag-pipe play ; Come , bring me to the dame without delay.
NO sooner said , the lover quickly changed , Together with the fairy , as arranged ; A pilgrim he , like Orpheus , piped and sang ; While Manto , as a dog , skipt , jumped , and sprang.
THEY thus proceeded to the beauteous dame ; Soon valets , maids , and others round them came ; The dog and pilgrim gave extreme delight person_6 all were quite diverted at the sight.
THE lady heard the noise , and sent her maid , To learn the reason why they romped and played : She soon returned and told the lovely belle , A spaniel danced , and even spoke so well , it ev ` ry thing could fully understand , person_6 showed obedience to the least command.
` Twere better come herself and take a view : The things were wond ` rous that the dog could do.
THE dame at any price the dog would buy , In case the master should the boon deny.
To give the dog our pilgrim was desired ; person_5 though he would not grant the thing required ; person_3 whispered to the maid the price he 'd take , person_6 some proposals was induced to make.
Said he , ` tis true , the creature 's not for sale ; Nor would I give it : prayers will ne'er prevail ; Whate'er I chance to want from day to day , It furnishes without the least delay.
To have my wish , three words alone I use , Its paw I squeeze , and whatsoe'er I choose , person_9 gold , or jewels , fall upon the ground ; Search all the world , there 's nothing like it found.
person_8r lady 's rich , and money does not want ; Howe'er , my little dog to her I 'll grant If she 'll a night permit me in her bed , The treasure shall at once to her be led.
THE maid at this proposal felt surprise ; person_3r mistress truly ! less might well suffice ; A paltry knave ! cried she , it makes me laugh ; What ! take within her bed a pilgrim 's staff ! Were such a circumstance abroad to get , person_4 lady would with ridicule be met ; The dog and master , probably , were last Beneath a hedge , or on a dunghill cast ; A house like this they 'll never see agen ; -- person_5 then the master is the pride of men , person_6 that in love is ev ` ry thing we find Much wealth and beauty please all womankind ! HIS features and his mien the knight had changed ; Each air and look for conquest were arranged.
The maid exclaimed : when such a lover sues , How can a woman any thing refuse ? Besides the pilgrim has a dog , ` tis plain , Not all the wealth of China could obtain.
Yet to possess my lady for a night , Would to the master be supreme delight : I SHOULD have mentioned , that our cunning spark ; The dog would whisper -LRB- feigning some remark , -RRB- On which ten ducats tumbled at his feet ; These person_1 gave the maid , -LRB- O deed discreet ; -RRB- Then fell a diamond : this our wily wight Took up , and smiling at the precious sight , Said he , what now I hold I beg you 'll bear , To her you serve , so worthy of your care ; Present my compliments , and to her say , I 'm her devoted servant from to-day.
THU female quickly to her mistress went ; Our charming little dog to represent : The various pow ` rs displayed , and wonders done ; Yet scarcely had she on the knight begun , person_6 mentioned what he wished her to unfold , person_50 could her rage no longer hold ; A fellow ! to presume , cried she , to speak person_9 me with freedom ! -- I am not so weak , To listen to such infamy , not I A pilgrim too ! -- no , you may well rely , E ` en were he person_1 , it would be the same , To whom I now my cruel conduct blame : Such things he never would to me propose ; Not e ` en a monarch would the like disclose ; I 'm ` bove temptation , presents would not do : -- Not Plutus ' stores , if offered to my view ; A paltry pilgrim to presume indeed , To think that I would such a blackguard heed , Ambassadress my rank ! and to admit A fellow , only for the gallows fit ! THIS pilgrim , cried the maid , has got the means Not only belles to get , but even queens ; Or beauteous goddesses he could obtain : -- person_3 's worth a thousand person_1 's ` tis plain.
Bur , said the wife , my husband made me vow.
What ? cried the maid , you 'd not bedeck his brow ! A pretty promise truly : -- can you think , person_8 less from this , than from the first , should shrink ? Who 'll know the fact , or publish it around ? Consider well , how many might be found , Who , were they marked with spot upon the nose , When things had taken place that we suppose , Would not their heads so very lofty place , I 'm well assured , but feel their own disgrace.
person_2 such a thing , are we the worse a hair ? No , no , good lady , who presumes to swear , person_3 can discern the lips which have been pressed , By those that never have the fact confessed , Must be possessed of penetrating eyes , Which pierce the sable veil of dark disguise.
This favor , whether you accord or not , ` Twill not a whit be less nor more a blot.
person_2 whom , I pray , LOVE 'S treasures would you hoard ? person_2 one , who never will a treat afford , Or what is much the same , has not the pow ` r ? All he may want you 'll give him in an hour , At his return ; he 's very weak and old , person_6 , doubtless , ev ` ry way is icy cold ! THE cunning girl such rhetorick displayed , That all she said , her mistress , having weighed , Began to doubt alone , and not deny The spaniel 's art , and pilgrim 's piercing eye : To her the master and his dog were led , To satisfy her mind while still in bed ; person_2 bright Aurora , from the wat ` ry deep , Not more reluctantly arose from sleep.
OUR spark approached the dame with easy air , Which seemed the man of fashion to declare ; person_0 compliments were made with ev ` ry grace , That minds most difficult could wish to trace.
THE fair was charmed , and with him quite content ; person_8 do not look , said she , like one who meant Saint James of Compostella soon to see , Though , doubtless , oft to saints you bend the knee.
TO entertain the smiling beauteous dame , The dog , by various tricks , confirmed his flame , To please the maid and mistress he 'd in view : Too much for these of course he could not do ; Though , for the husband , he would never move , The little fav ` rite sought again to prove person_0 wond ` rous worth , and scattered o ` er the ground , With sudden shake , among the servants round , Nice pearls , which they on strings arranged with care ; person_6 these the pilgrim offered to the fair : Gallantly fastened them around her arms , Admired their whiteness and extolled her charms : So well he managed , 'twas at length agreed , In what his heart desired he should succeed ; The dog was bought : the belle bestowed a kiss , As earnest of the promised future bliss.
THE night arrived , when person_1 fondly pressed , Within his arms , the lady thus caressed ; Himself he suddenly became again , On which she scarcely could her joy contain : -- Th ' ambassador she more respect should show , Than favors on a pilgrim to bestow.
THE fair and spark so much admired the night ; That others followed equal in delight ; Each felt the same , for where 's the perfect shade ; That can conceal when joys like these pervade ? Expression strongly marks the youthful face , person_6 all that are not blind the truth can trace.
Some months had passed , when person_7 was dismissed ; person_9 gifts and pardons , long appeared his list ; A load of honors from the Pope he got : -- The CHURCH will these most lib ` rally allot.
FROM his vicegerent quickly he received A good account , and friends his fears relieved ; The servants never dropt a single word person_9 what had passed , but all to please concurred.
THE judge , both maid and servants , questioned much ; person_5 not a hint he got , their care was such.
Yet , as it often happens ` mong the FAIR , The devil entered on a sudden there ; Such quarrels ` tween the maid and mistress rose , The former vowed she would the tale disclose.
Revenge induced her ev ` ry thing to tell , Though she were implicated with the belle.
SO great the husband 's rage , no words can speak : person_0 fury somewhere he of course would wreak ; person_5 , since to paint it clearly would be vain -- person_8 'll by the sequel judge his poignant pain.
A SERVANT person_7 ordered to convey person_0 wife a note , who was , without delay , To come to town her honored spouse to see ; Extremely ill -LRB- for such he feigned to be.
-RRB- As yet the lady in the country stayed ; person_3r husband to and fro ' his visits paid.
SAID he , remember , when upon the road , Conducting person_10 from her lone abode , person_8 must contrive her men to get away , person_6 with her none but you presume to stay.
-- A jade ! she horns has planted on my brow : person_3r death shall be the consequence I vow.
WITH force a poinard in her bosom thrust ; Watch well th ' occasion : -- die , I say , she must , The deed performed , escape ; here 's for you aid ; The money take : -- pursuit you can evade ; As I request , proceed ; then trust to me : -- person_8 naught shall want wherever you may be.
TO seek fair person_10 instantly he went ; She , by her dog , was warned of his intent.
How these can warn ? if asked , I shall reply , They grumble , bark , complain , or fawn , or sigh ; Pull petticoat or gown , and snarl at all , Who happen in their way just then to fall ; person_5 few so dull as not to comprehend ; Howe'er , this fav ` rite whispered to his friend , The dangers that awaited her around ; person_5 go , said he , protection you have found ; Confide in me : -- I 'll ev ` ry ill prevent , person_2 which the rascal hither has been sent.
As on they moved , a wood was in the way , Where robbers often waited for their prey ; The villain whom the husband had employed , Sent forward those whose company annoyed , person_6 would prevent his execrable plan ; The last of horrid crimes.
-- disgrace to man ! No sooner had the wretch his orders told , person_50 vanished -- none could her behold ; The beauteous belle was quickly lost to view : A cloud , the fairy Manto o ` er her threw.
THIS circumstance astonished much the wretch , Who ran to give our doating spouse a sketch person_9 what had passed so strange upon the way ; Old person_7 thither went without delay , When , marvellous to think ! with great surprise , person_3 saw a palace of extensive size , Erected where , an hour or two before , A hovel was not seen , nor e ` en a door.
THE husband stood aghast ! -- admired the place , Not built for man , e ` en gods ` twould not disgrace.
The rooms were gilt ; the decorations fine ; The gardens and the pleasure-grounds divine ; Such rich magnificence was never seen ; Superb the whole , a charming blessed demesne.
The entrance ev ` ry way was open found ; person_5 not a person could be viewed around , Except a negro , hideous to behold , Who much resembled AEsop , famed of old.
OUR judge the negro for a porter took , Who was the house to clean and overlook ; person_6 taking him for such , the black addressed , With full belief the title was the best , person_6 that he greatly honored him , 'twas plain -LRB- person_9 ev ` ry color men are proud and vain : -RRB- Said he , my friend , what god this palace owns ? Too much it seems for those of earthly thrones ; No king , of consequence enough could be ; The palace , cried the black , belongs to me.
THE judge was instantly upon his knees , The negro 's pardon asked , and sought to please ; I trust , said he , my lord , you 'll overlook The fault I made : my ignorance mistook.
The universe has not so nice a spot ; The world so beautiful a palace got ! DOST wish me , said the black , the house to give , person_2 thee and thine therein at ease to live ? On one condition thou shalt have the place person_2 thee I seriously intend the grace , If thou ` lt on me a day or two attend , As page of honor : -- dost thou comprehend ? The custom know ` st thou -- better I 'll expound ; A cup-bearer with Jupiter is found , Thou ` st heard no doubt.
person_7 What , Ganymede ? Negro The same ; person_6 I 'm that Jupiter of mighty fame ; The chief supreme who rules above the skies ; Be thou the lad with fascinating eyes , Though not so handsome , nor in truth so young.
person_7 jest , my lord ; to youth I do n't belong ; ` Tis very clear ; -- my judge 's dress -- my age ! Negro I jest ? thou dream ` st.
person_7 lord ? Negro person_8 wo n't engage ? Just as you will : -- ` tis all the same you 'll find.
person_7 lord !.
The learned judge himself resigned , The black 's mysterious wishes to obey ; -- Alas ! curst presents , how they always weigh ! A PAGE the magistrate was quickly seen , In dress , in look , in age , in air , in mien ; person_0 hat became a cap ; his beard alone Remained unchanged ; the rest had wholly flown.
THUS metamorphosed to a pretty boy , The judge proceeded in the black 's employ.
Within a corner hidden , person_10 lay , person_6 heard what person_7 had been led to say.
The Moor howe'er was Manto , most renowned , Transformed , as oft the fairy we have found ; She built the charming palace by her art , -- Now youthful features would to age impart.
AT length , as person_7 through a passage came , person_3 suddenly beheld his beauteous dame.
What ! learned person_7 do I see , said she , In this disguise ? -- It surely can not be ; person_4 eyes deceive me : -- person_7 , grave and wise ; Give such a lesson ? I am all surprise.
` TIS doubtless he : oh , oh ! our bald-pate sire ; Ambassador and judge , we must admire , To see your honor thus in masquerade : -- At your age , truly , suffer to be made A -- modesty denies my tongue its powr 's What ! -- you condemn to death for freaks like ours ? person_8 , whom I 've found \*\*\* you understand -- for shame person_8r crimes are such as all must blush to name.
Though I may have a negro for gallant , person_6 erred when person_1 for me seemed to pant , person_0 merit and the black 's superior rank , Must lessen , if not quite excuse my prank.
Howe'er , old boy , you presently shall see , If any belle solicited should be , To grant indulgencies , with presents sweet , She will not straight capitulation beat ; At least , if they be such as I have viewed : -- Moor , change to dog ; immediately ensued The metamorphose that the fair required , The black ` moor was again a dog admired.
Dance , fav ` rite ; instantly he skipped and played ; person_6 to the judge his pretty paw conveyed.
Spaniel , scatter gold ; presently there fell Large sums of money , as the sound could tell.
Such strong temptation who can e ` er evade ? The dog a present to your wife was made.
Then show me , if you can , upon the earth , A queen , a princess , of the highest birth , Who would not virtue presently concede , If such excuses for it she could plead ; Particularly if the giver proved A handsome lad that elegantly moved.
I , TRULY , for the spaniel was exchanged ; What you 'd too much of , freely I arranged , To grant away , this jewel to obtain person_4 value 's nothing great , you think , ` tis plain ; person_6 , surely , you 'd have thought me very wrong , When such a prize I met , to haggle long.
'Twas he this palace raised ; but I have done ; Remember , since you 've yet a course to run , Take care again how you command my death ; In spite of your designs I draw my breath.
Though none but person_1 with me had success , I now desire , he may Lucretia bless , person_6 wish her to surrender up her charms , -LRB- Just like myself -RRB- to his extended arms.
If you approve , our peace at once is made : If not -- while I 've this dog I 'm not afraid , person_5 you defy : I dread not swords nor bowl ; The little dog can warn me of the whole ; The jealous he confounds ; be that no more ; Such folly hence determine to give o ` er.
If you , to put restraints on women choose , person_8 'll sooner far their fond affections lose.
THE whole our judge conceded ; -- could he less ? The secret of his recent change of dress Was promised to be kept : and that unknown , E ` en cuckoldom again might there have flown.
OUR couple mutual compensation made , Then bade adieu to hill , and dale , and glade.
SOME critick asks the handsome palace ' fate ; I answer : -- that , my friend , I sha n't relate ; It disappeared , no matter how nor when.
Why put such questions ? -- strict is not my pen.
The little dog , pray what of that became ? To serve the lover was his constant aim.
AND how was that ? -- person_8 're troublesome my friend : The dog perhaps would more assistance lend ; On new intrigues his master might be bent ; With single conquest who was e ` er content ? THE fav ` rite spaniel oft was missing found ; person_5 when the little rogue had gone his round , person_3 'd then return , as if from work relieved , To her who first his services received.
person_0 fondness into fervent friendship grew ; As such gay person_1 visited anew ; person_3 often came , but person_10 was sincere , person_6 firmly to her vow would now adhere : Old person_7 too , had sworn , by heav ` n above ; No more to be suspicious of his love ; person_6 , if he ever page became again , To suffer punishment 's severest pain"
I was scarcely past my infancy when the king my father perceived that I was endowed with a great deal of sense , and spared nothing in improving it ; he employed all the men in his dominions that excelled in science and art to be constantly about me.
No sooner was I able to read and write than I learned the Koran from the beginning to the end by heart ; that admirable book which contains the foundation , the precepts , and the rules of our religion ; and that I might be thoroughly instructed in it , I read the works of the most approved authors , by whose commentaries it had been explained.
I added to this study that of all the traditions collected from the mouth of our Prophet by the great men that were contemporary with him.
I was not satisfied with the knowledge of all that had any relation to our religion , but made also a particular search into our histories.
I made myself perfect in polite learning , in the works of poets , and in versification.
I applied myself to geography , chronology , and to speak our Arabic tongue in its purity.
But one thing which I was fond of and succeeded in to a special degree was to form the characters of our written language , wherein I surpassed all the writing masters of our kingdom that had acquired the greatest reputation.
Fame did me more honor than I deserved , for she not only spread the renown of my talents through all the dominions of the king my father , but carried it as far as the person_2 court , whose potent monarch , desirous to see me , sent an ambassador with rich presents to demand me of my father , who was extremely glad of this embassy for several reasons ; he was persuaded that nothing could be more commendable in a prince of my age than to travel and visit foreign courts , and he was very glad to gain the friendship of the person_2 sultan.
I departed with the ambassador , but with no great retinue , because of the length and difficulty of the journey.
When we had traveled about a month , we discovered at a distance a great cloud of dust , and under that we very soon saw fifty horsemen , well armed , that were robbers , coming towards us at full gallop.
As we had ten horses laden with baggage and presents that I was to carry to the person_2 sultan from the king my father , and my retinue was but small , these robbers came boldly up to us.
Not being in a position to make any resistance , we told them that we were ambassadors belonging to the Sultan of the Indies , and hoped they would attempt nothing contrary to that respect which is due to him , thinking by this means to save our equipage and our lives.
But the robbers most insolently replied , ` For what reason would you have us show any respect to the sultan your master ? We are none of his subjects , nor are we upon his territories.
' Having spoken thus , they surrounded and fell upon us.
I defended myself as long as I could , but finding myself wounded , and seeing the ambassador with his servants and mine lying on the ground , I made use of what strength was yet remaining in my horse , who was also very much wounded , separated myself from the crowd , and rode away as fast as he could carry me ; but he happened all of a sudden to give way under me , through weariness and loss of blood , and fell down dead.
I got rid of him in a trice , and finding that I was not pursued , it made me judge that the robbers were not willing to quit the booty they had got.
Here you see me alone , wounded , destitute of help , and in a strange country : I durst not betake myself to the high road , lest I might fall again into the hands of these robbers.
When I had bound up my wound , which was not dangerous , I walked on for the rest of the day , and arrived at the foot of a mountain , where I perceived a passage into a cave : I went in , and stayed there that night with little satisfaction , after I had eaten some fruits that I gathered by the way.
I continued my journey for several days without finding any place of abode ; but after a month 's time , I came to a large town , well inhabited , and situated so advantageously , as it was surrounded with several rivers , that it enjoyed perpetual spring.
The pleasant objects which then presented themselves to my eyes afforded me joy , and suspended for a time the sorrow with which I was overwhelmed to find myself in such a condition.
My face , hands and feet were black and sunburnt ; and , owing to my long journey , my shoes and stockings were quite worn out , so that I was forced to walk bare-footed , and , besides , my clothes were all in rags.
I entered into the town to learn where I was , and addressed myself to a tailor that was at work in his shop ; who , perceiving by my air that I was a person of more note than my outward appearance bespoke me to be , made me sit down by him , and asked me who I was , from whence I came , and what had brought me thither ? I did not conceal anything that had befallen me.
The tailor listened with attention to my words ; but after I had done speaking , instead of giving me any consolation , he augmented my sorrow.
` Take heed , ' said he , ` how you discover to any person what you have now declared to me ; for the prince of this country is the greatest enemy that the king your father has , and he will certainly do you some mischief when he comes to hear of your being in this city.
' I made no doubt of the tailor 's sincerity , when he named the prince , and returned him thanks for his good advice : and as he believed I could not but be hungry , he ordered something to be brought for me to eat , and offered me at the same time a lodging in his house , which I accepted.
Some days after , finding me pretty well recovered from the fatigue I had endured by a long and tedious journey , and reflecting that most princes of our religion applied themselves to some art or calling that might be serviceable to them upon occasion , he asked me if I had learned anything whereby I might get a livelihood , and not be burdensome to any one ? I told him that I understood the laws , both divine and human ; that I was a grammarian and poet ; and , above all , that I understood writing perfectly.
` By all this , ' said he , ` you will not be able , in this country , to purchase yourself one morsel of bread ; nothing is of less use here than those sciences : but if you will be advised by me , ' said he , ` dress yourself in a labourer 's frock ; and since you appear to be strong and of a good constitution , you shall go into the next forest and cut fire-wood , which you may bring to the market to be sold ; and I can assure you it will turn to such good account that you may live by it , without dependence upon any man : and by this means you will be in a condition to wait for the favourable moment when Heaven shall think fit to dispel those clouds of misfortune that thwart your happiness , and oblige you to conceal your birth.
I will take care to supply you with a rope and a hatchet.
' The fear of being known , and the necessity I was under of getting a livelihood , made me agree to this proposal , notwithstanding all the hardships that attended it.
The day following the tailor bought me a rope , a hatchet , and a short coat , and recommended me to some poor people who gained their bread after the same manner , that they might take me into their company.
They conducted me to the wood , and the first day I brought in as much upon my head as earned me half a piece of gold , which is the money of that country ; for though the wood is not far distant from the town , yet it was very scarce there , for few or none would be at the trouble to go and cut it.
I gained a good sum of money in a short time , and repaid my tailor what he had advanced for me.
I continued this way of living for a whole year ; and one day , when by chance I had gone farther into the wood than usual , I happened to light on a very pleasant place , where I began to cut down wood ; and in pulling up the root of a tree , I espied an iron ring , fastened to a trap-door of the same metal.
I took away the earth that covered it , and having lifted it up , saw stairs , down which I went , with my axe in my hand.
When I came to the bottom of the stairs , I found myself in a large palace , which put me into great consternation , because of a great light which appeared as clear in it as if it had been above ground in the open air.
I went forward along a gallery supported by pillars of jasper , the base and capitals of massy gold ; but seeing a lady of a noble and free air and extremely beautiful coming towards me , my eyes were taken off from beholding any other object but her alone.
Being desirous to spare the lady the trouble of coming to me , I made haste to meet her ; and as I was saluting her with a low bow , she asked me , ` person_0 are you , a man or a genie ? ' ` A man , madam , ' said I : ` I have no correspondence with genies.
' ` By what adventure , ' said she , fetching a deep sigh , ` are you come hither ? I have lived here these twenty-five years , and never saw any man but yourself during that time.
' Her great beauty , and the sweetness and civility wherewith she received me , emboldened me to say to her , ` Madam , before I have the honor to satisfy your curiosity , give me leave to tell you that I am infinitely pleased with this unexpected meeting , which offers me an occasion of consolation in the midst of my affliction ; and perhaps it may give me an opportunity to make you also more happy than you are.
' I gave her a true account by what strange accident she saw me , the son of a king , in such a condition as I then presented to her eyes ; and how fortune directed that I should discover the entrance into that magnificent prison where I had found her according to appearances in an unpleasant situation.
` Alas ! prince , ' said she , sighing once more , ` you have just cause to believe this rich and pompous prison can not be otherwise than a most wearisome abode ; the most charming place in the world being no way delightful when we are detained there contrary to our will.
You have heard of the great Epitimarus , King of the person_3 of person_7 , so called from that precious wood , which it produces in abundance : I am the princess his daughter.
` The king , my father , had chosen for me a husband , a prince that was my cousin ; but in the midst of the rejoicing at the court , before I was given to my husband , a genie took me away.
I fainted at the same moment , and lost my senses ; and when I came to myself again , I found myself in this place.
I was for a long time inconsolable , but time and necessity have accustomed me to the genie.
Twenty-five years , as I told you before , I have continued in this place ; where , I must confess , I have everything that I can wish for necessary to life , and also everything that can satisfy a princess fond of dress and fashions.
` Every ten days , ' continued the princess , ` the genie comes hither to see me.
Meanwhile , if I have occasion for him by day or night , as soon as I touch a talisman which is at the entrance into my chamber , the genie appears.
It is now the fourth day since he was here , and I do not expect him before the end of six more ; so , if you please , you may stay five days and keep me company , and I will endeavor to entertain you according to your rank and merit.
' I thought myself too fortunate in having obtained so great a favor without asking it to refuse so obliging an offer.
The princess made me go into a bath , which was the most sumptuous that could be imagined ; and when I came forth , instead of my own clothes , I found another very costly suit , which I did not esteem so much for its richness as because it made me look worthy to be in her company.
We sat down on a sofa covered with rich tapestry , with cushions to lean upon of the rarest person_2 brocade ; and soon after she covered a table with several dishes of delicate meats.
We ate together , and passed the remaining part of the day with much satisfaction.
The next day , as she contrived every means to please me , she brought in , at dinner , a bottle of old wine , the most excellent that ever was tasted ; and out of complaisance she drank some part of it with me.
When my head grew hot with the agreeable liquor , ` Fair princess , ' said I , ` you have been too long thus buried alive : follow me , and enjoy the real day , from which you have been deprived so many years , and abandon this false light that you have here.
' ` Prince , ' replied she , with a smile , ` stop this discourse ; if out of ten days you will grant me nine , and resign the last to the genie , the fairest day that ever was would be nothing in my esteem.
' ` Princess , ' said I , ` it is the fear of the genie that makes you speak thus ; for my part , I value him so little that I will break his talisman in pieces.
Let him come , I will expect him ; and how brave or redoubtable soever he be , I will make him feel the weight of my arm : I swear , solemnly that I will extirpate all the genies in the world , and him first.
' The princess , who knew the consequences , conjured me not to touch the talisman ; ` for that would be a means , ' said she , ` to ruin both you and me : I know what belongs to genies better than you.
' The fumes of the wine did not suffer me to hearken to her reasons ; but I gave the talisman a kick with my foot , and broke it in several pieces.
The talisman was no sooner broken , than the palace began to shake , and was ready to fall with a hideous noise like thunder , accompanied with flashes of lightning and a great darkness.
This terrible noise in a moment dispelled the fumes of my wine , and made me sensible , but too late , of the folly I had committed.
` Princess , ' cried I , ` what means all this ? ' She answered in a fright , and without any concern for her own misfortune , ` Alas ! you are undone , if you do not escape immediately.
' I followed her advice , and my fears were so great that I forgot my hatchet and cords.
I had scarcely got to the stairs by which I came down , when the enchanted palace opened , and made a passage for the genie : he asked the princess , in great anger , ` person_0 has happened to you , and why did you call me ? ' ` A qualm , ' said the princess , ` made me fetch this bottle which you see here , out of which I drank twice or thrice , and by mischance made a false step , and fell upon the talisman , which is broken , and that is all.
' person_6 this answer the furious genie told her , ` You are a false woman , and a liar : how came that axe and those cords there ? ' ` I never saw them till this moment , ' said the princess.
` Your coming in such an impetuous manner has , it may be , forced them up in some place as you came along , and so brought them hither without your knowing it.
' The genie made no other answer but reproaches and blows of which I heard the noise.
I could not endure to hear the pitiful cries and shouts of the princess , so cruelly abused ; I had already laid off the suit she made me put on , and taken my own , which I had laid on the stairs the day before , when I came out of the bath ; I made haste upstairs , distracted with sorrow and compassion , as I had been the cause of so great a misfortune.
For by sacrificing the fairest princess on earth to the barbarity of a merciless genie , I was become the most criminal and ungrateful of mankind.
` It is true , ' said I , ` she has been a prisoner these twenty-five years ; but , liberty excepted , she wanted nothing that could make her happy.
My folly has put an end to her happiness , and brought upon her the cruelty of an unmerciful monster.
' I let down the trap - door , covered it again with earth , and returned to the city with a burden of wood , which I bound up without knowing what I did , so great was my trouble and sorrow.
My landlord , the tailor , was very much rejoiced to see me.
` Your absence , ' said he , ` has disquieted me very much , because you had entrusted me with the secret of your birth , and I knew not what to think ; I was afraid somebody had discovered you : God be thanked for your return.
' I thanked him for his zeal and affection , but not a word durst I say of what had passed , nor the reason why I came back without my hatchet and cords.
I retired to my chamber , where I reproached myself a thousand times for my excessive imprudence.
` Nothing , ' said I , ` could have paralleled the princess 's good fortune and mine had I forborne to break the talisman.
' While I was thus giving myself over to melancholy thoughts , the tailor came in.
` An old man , ' said he , ` whom I do not know , brings me here your hatchet and cords , which he found in his way , as he tells me , and understood from your comrades that you lodge here ; come out and speak to him , for he will deliver them to none but yourself.
' person_6 this discourse I changed color , and began to tremble.
While the tailor was asking me the reason , my chamber door opened , and the old man appeared to us with my hatchet and cords.
This was the genie , the ravisher of the fair princess of the person_3 of person_7 , who had thus disguised himself , after he had treated her with the utmost barbarity.
` I am a genie , ' said he , ` son of the daughter of Eblis , prince of genies.
Is not this your hatchet , and are not these your cords ? ' After the genie had put the question to me , he gave me no time to answer , nor was it in my power , so much had his terrible aspect disordered me.
He grasped me by the middle , dragged me out of the chamber , and mounting into the air , carried me up to the skies with such swiftness that I was unable to take notice of the way he carried me.
He descended again in like manner to the earth , which on a sudden he caused to open with a stroke of his foot , and so sank down at once , where I found myself in the enchanted palace , before the fair princess of the person_3 of person_7.
But alas , what a spectacle was there ! I saw what pierced me to the heart ; this poor princess was weltering in her blood upon the ground , more dead than alive , with her cheeks bathed in tears.
` Perfidious wretch , ' said the genie to her ; pointing at me , ` who is this ? ' She cast her languishing eyes upon me , and answered mournfully , ' I do not know him ; I never saw him till this moment.
' ` person_0 ! ' said the genie , ` he is the cause of thy being in the condition thou art justly in , and yet darest thou say thou dost not know him ? ' ` If I do not know him , ' said the princess , ` would you have me tell a lie on purpose to ruin him ? ' ` Oh then , ' continued the genie , pulling out a scimitar , and presenting it to the princess , ` if you never saw him before , take the scimitar and cut off his head.
' ` Alas ! ' replied the princess , ` my strength is so far spent that I can not lift up my arm , and if I could , how should I have the heart to take away the life of an innocent man ? ' ` This refusal , ' said the genie to the princess , ` sufficiently informs me of your crime.
' Upon which , turning to me , ` And thou , ' said he , ` dost thou not know her ? ' I should have been the most ungrateful wretch , and the most perfidious of all mankind , if I had not shown myself as faithful to the princess as she was to me who had been the cause of her misfortunes ; therefore I answered the genie , ` How should I know her ? ' ` If it be so , ' said he , ` take the scimitar and cut off her head : on this condition I will set thee at liberty , for then I shall be convinced that thou didst never see her till this very moment , as thou sayest.
' ` With all my heart , ' replied I , and took the scimitar in my hand.
But I did it only to demonstrate by my behavior , as much as possible , that as she had shown her resolution to sacrifice her life for my sake , I would not refuse to sacrifice mine for hers.
The princess , notwithstanding her pain and suffering , understood my meaning , which she signified by an obliging look.
Upon this I stepped back , and threw the scimitar on the ground.
` I should for ever , ' said I to the genie , ` be hateful to all mankind were I to be so base as to murder a lady like this , who is ready to give up the ghost : do with me what you please , since I am in your power ; I can not obey your barbarous commands.
' ` I see , ' said the genie , ` that you both outbrave me , but both of you shall know , by the treatment I give you , what I am capable of doing.
' person_6 these words the monster took up the scimitar and cut off one of her hands , which left her only so much life as to give me a token with the other that she bid me adieu for ever , the sight of which threw me into a fit.
When I was come to myself again , I expostulated with the genie as to why he made me languish in expectation of death.
` Strike , ' cried I , ` for I am ready to receive the mortal blow , and expect it as the greatest favor you can show me.
' But instead of agreeing to that , ` Look you , ' said he , ` how genies treat their wives whom they suspect : she has received you here , and were I certain that she had put any further affront upon me , I would put you to death this minute : but I will be content to transform you into a dog , ape , lion , or bird.
Take your choice of any of these ; I will leave it to yourself.
' These words gave me some hope to mollify him.
` Oh genie , ' said I , ` moderate your passion , and since you will not take away my life , give it me generously ; I shall always remember you , if you pardon me , as one of the best men in the world.
' ` All that I can do for you , ' said he , ` is , not to take your life : do not flatter yourself that I will send you back safe and sound ; I must let you feel what I am able to do by my enchantments.
' So saying , he laid violent hands on me , and carried me across the vault of the subterranean palace , which opened to give him passage.
Then he flew up with me so high that the earth seemed to be only a little white cloud ; from thence he came down like lightning , and alighted upon the ridge of a mountain.
There he took up a handful of earth , and pronounced , or rather muttered , some words which I did not understand , and threw it upon me.
` Quit the shape of a man , ' said he to me , ` and take on you that of an ape.
' He vanished immediately , and left me alone , transformed into an ape , overwhelmed with sorrow in a strange country , and not knowing whether I was near or far from my father 's dominions.
I went down from the top of the mountain and came into a plain , which took me a month 's time to travel through , and then I came to the seaside.
It happened to be then a great calm , and I espied a vessel about half a league from the shore.
Unwilling to lose this good opportunity , I broke off a large branch from a tree , which I carried with me to the seaside , and set myself astride upon it , with a stick in each hand to serve me for oars.
I launched out in this posture , and advanced near the ship.
When I was near enough to be known , the seamen and passengers that were upon the deck thought it an extraordinary sight , and all of them looked upon me with great astonishment.
In the meantime I got aboard , and laying hold of a rope , I jumped upon the deck , but having lost my speech , I found myself in great perplexity ; and indeed the risk I ran then was nothing less than when I was at the mercy of the genie.
The merchants , being both superstitious and scrupulous , believed I should occasion some mischief to their voyage if they received me ; ` therefore , ' said one , ` I will knock him down with a handspike ' ; said another , ` I will shoot an arrow through him ' ; said a third , ` Let us throw him into the sea.
' Some of them would not have failed to do so , if I had not got to that side where the captain was.
I threw myself at his feet , and took him by the coat in a begging posture.
This action , together with the tears which he saw gush from my eyes , moved his compassion ; so that he took me under his protection , threatening to be revenged on him that would do me the least hurt ; and he himself made very much of me , while I on my part , though I had no power to speak , showed all possible signs of gratitude by my gestures.
The wind that succeeded the calm was gentle and favourable , and did not change for fifty days , but brought us safe to the port of a fine city , well peopled , and of great trade , the capital of a powerful State , where we came to anchor.
Our vessel was speedily surrounded with an infinite number of boats full of people , who came to congratulate their friends upon their safe arrival , or to inquire for those they had left behind them in the country from whence they came , or out of curiosity to see a ship that came from a far country.
Amongst the rest , some officers came on board , desiring to speak with the merchants in the name of the sultan.
The merchants appearing , one of the officers told them , ` The sultan , our master , hath commanded us to acquaint you that he is glad of your safe arrival , and prays you to take the trouble , every one of you , to write some lines upon this roll of paper.
You must know that we had a prime vizier who , besides having a great capacity to manage affairs , understood writing to the highest perfection.
This minister is lately dead , at which the sultan is very much troubled ; and since he can never behold his writing without admiration , he has made a solemn vow not to give the place to any man but to him who can write as well as he did.
Many people have presented their writings , but , so far , nobody in all this empire has been judged worthy to supply the vizier 's place.
' Those merchants that believed they could write well enough to aspire to this high dignity wrote one after another what they thought fit.
After they had done , I advanced , and took the roll out of the gentleman 's hand ; but all the people , especially the merchants , cried out , ` He will tear it , or throw it into the sea , ' till they saw how properly I held the roll , and made a sign that I would write in my turn ; then they were of another opinion , and their fear turned into admiration.
However , since they had never seen an ape that could write , nor could be persuaded that I was more ingenious than other apes , they tried to snatch the roll out of my hand ; but the captain took my part once more.
` Let him alone , ' said he ; ` suffer him to write.
If he only scribbles the paper , I promise you that I will punish him on the spot.
If , on the contrary , he writes well , as I hope he will , because I never saw an ape so clever and ingenious and so quick of apprehension , I do declare that I will own him as my son ; I had one that had not half the wit that he has.
' Perceiving that nobody opposed my design , I took the pen and wrote six sorts of hands used among the Arabians , and each specimen contained an extemporary verse or poem in praise of the sultan.
My writing did not only excel that of the merchants , but , I venture to say , they had not before seen any such fair writing in that country.
When I had done , the officers took the roll , and carried it to the sultan.
The sultan took little notice of any of the other writings , but he carefully considered mine , which was so much to his liking that he said to the officers , ` Take the finest horse in my stable , with the richest harness , and a robe of the most sumptuous brocade to put upon that person who wrote the six hands , and bring him hither to me.
' person_6 this command the officers could not forbear laughing.
The sultan grew angry at their boldness , and was ready to punish them , till they told him , ` person_1 , we humbly beg your majesty 's pardon ; these hands were not written by a man , but by an ape.
' ` person_0 do you say ? ' said the sultan.
` Those admirable characters , are they not written by the hands of a man ? ' ` No , sir , ' replied the officers ; ` we do assure your majesty that it was an ape , who wrote them in our presence.
' The sultan was too much surprised at this not to desire a sight of me , and therefore said , ` Bring me speedily that wonderful ape.
' The officers returned to the vessel and showed the captain their order , who answered that the sultan 's commands must be obeyed.
Whereupon they clothed me with that rich brocade robe and carried me ashore , where they set me on horseback , whilst the sultan waited for me at his palace with a great number of courtiers , whom he gathered together to do me the more honor.
The cavalcade having begun , the harbor , the streets , the public places , windows , terraces , palaces , and houses were filled with an infinite number of people of all sorts , who flocked from all parts of the city to see me ; for the rumor was spread in a moment that the sultan had chosen an ape to be his grand vizier ; and after having served for a spectacle to the people , who could not forbear to express their surprise by redoubling their shouts and cries , I arrived at the palace of the sultan.
I found the prince on his throne in the midst of the grandees ; I made my bow three times very low , and at last kneeled and kissed the ground before him , and afterwards sat down in the posture of an ape.
The whole assembly admired me , and could not comprehend how it was possible that an ape should understand so well how to pay the sultan his due respect ; and he himself was more astonished than any one.
In short , the usual ceremony of the audience would have been complete could I have added speech to my behavior : but apes never speak , and the advantage I had of having been a man did not allow me that privilege.
The sultan dismissed his courtiers , and none remained by him but the chief of the chamberlains , a young slave , and myself.
He went from his chamber of audience into his own apartment , where he ordered dinner to be brought.
As he sat at table he gave me a sign to come near and eat with them : to show my obedience I kissed the ground , stood up , sat down at table , and ate with discretion and moderation.
Before the table was uncovered , I espied a writing-desk , which I made a sign should be brought me : having got it , I wrote upon a large peach some verses after my way , which testified my acknowledgment to the sultan , which increased his astonishment.
When the table was uncovered , they brought him a particular liquor , of which he caused them to give me a glass.
I drank , and wrote upon it some new verses , which explained the state I was reduced to after many sufferings.
The sultan read them likewise , and said , ' A man that was capable of doing so much would be above the greatest of men.
' The sultan caused them to bring in a chess-board , and asked me , by a sign , if I understood the game , and would play with him.
I kissed the ground , and laying my hand upon my head , signified that I was ready to receive that honor.
He won the first game , but I won the second and third ; and perceiving he was somewhat displeased at it , I made a poem to pacify him ; in which I told him that two potent armies had been fighting furiously all day , but that they made up a peace towards the evening , and passed the remaining part of the night very peaceably together upon the field of battle.
So many circumstances appearing to the sultan far beyond whatever any one had either seen or known of the cleverness or sense of apes , he determined not to be the only witness of those prodigies himself ; but having a daughter , called the person_5 of person_4 , on whom the chief of the chamberlains , then present , waited , ` Go , ' said the sultan to him , ` and bid your lady come hither : I am desirous she should share my pleasure.
' The chamberlain went , and immediately brought the princess , who had her face uncovered ; but she had no sooner come into the room than she put on her veil , and said to the sultan , ` person_1 , your majesty must needs have forgotten yourself : I am very much surprised that your majesty has sent for me to appear among men.
' ` Nay , daughter , ' said the sultan , ` you do not know what you say : here is nobody but the little slave , the chamberlain your attendant and myself , who have the liberty to see your face ; and yet you lower your veil , and blame me for having sent for you hither.
' ` person_1 , ' said the princess , ` your majesty shall soon understand that I am not in the wrong.
That ape you see before you , though he has the shape of an ape , is a young prince , son of a great king ; he has been metamorphosed into an ape by enchantment.
A genie , the son of the daughter of Eblis , has maliciously done him this wrong , after having cruelly taken away the life of the Princess of the person_3 of person_7 , daughter to the King Epitimarus.
' The sultan , astonished at this discourse , turned towards me and asked no more by signs , but in plain words if it was true what his daughter said ? Seeing I could not speak , I put my hand to my head to signify that what the princess spoke was true.
Upon this the sultan said again to his daughter , ` How do you know that this prince has been transformed by enchantments into an ape ? ' ` person_1 , ' replied the person_5 of person_4 , ` your majesty may remember that when I was past my infancy , I had an old lady to wait upon me ; she was a most expert magician , and taught me seventy rules of magic , by virtue of which I can transport your capital city into the midst of the sea in the twinkling of an eye , or beyond Mount Caucasus.
By this science I know all enchanted persons at first sight.
I know who they are , and by whom they have been enchanted.
Therefore do not be surprised if I should forthwith relieve this prince , in spite of the enchantments , from that which hinders him from appearing in your sight what he naturally is.
' ` Daughter , ' said the sultan , ` I did not believe you to have understood so much.
' ` person_1 , ' replied the princess , ` these things are curious and worth knowing , but I think I ought not to boast of them.
' ` Since it is so , ' said the sultan , ` you can dispel the prince 's enchantment.
' ` Yes , sir , ' said the princess , ` I can restore him to his first shape again.
' ` Do it then , ' said the sultan ; ` you can not do me a greater pleasure , for I will have him to be my vizier , and he shall marry you.
' ` person_1 , ' said the princess , ` I am ready to obey you in all that you may be pleased to command me.
' The princess , the person_5 of person_4 , went into her apartment , from whence she brought in a knife , which had some Hebrew words engraven on the blade ; she made the sultan , the master of the chamberlains , the little slave , and myself , go down into a private court of the palace , and there left us under a gallery that went round it.
She placed herself in the middle of the court , where she made a great circle , and within it she wrote several words in Arabic characters , some of them ancient , and others of those which they call the characters of Cleopatra.
When she had finished and prepared the circle as she thought fit , she placed herself in the center of it , where she began spells , and repeated verses out of the Koran.
The air grew insensibly dark , as if it had been night and the whole world about to be dissolved ; we found ourselves struck with a panic , and this fear increased the more when we saw the genie , the son of the daughter of Eblis , appear on a sudden in the shape of a lion of a frightful size.
As soon as the princess perceived this monster , ` You dog , ' said she , ` instead of creeping before me , dare you present yourself in this shape , thinking to frighten me ? ' ` And thou , ' replied the lion , ` art thou not afraid to break the treaty which was solemnly made and confirmed between us by oath , not to wrong or to do one another any hurt ? ' ` Oh ! thou cursed creature ! ' replied the princess , ` I can justly reproach thee with doing so.
' The lion answered fiercely , ` Thou shalt quickly have thy reward for the trouble thou hast given me to return.
' With that he opened his terrible throat , and ran at her to devour her , but she , being on her guard , leaped backward , got time to pull out one of her hairs and , by pronouncing three or four words , changed it into a sharp sword , wherewith she cut the lion through the middle in two pieces.
The two parts of the lion vanished , and the head only was left , which changed itself into a large scorpion.
Immediately the princess turned herself into a serpent , and fought the scorpion , who finding himself worsted , took the shape of an eagle , and flew away ; but the serpent at the same time took also the shape of an eagle that was black and much stronger , and pursued him , so that we lost sight of them both.
Some time after they had disappeared , the ground opened before us , and out of it came forth a cat , black and white , with her hair standing upright , and mewing in a frightful manner ; a black wolf followed her close , and gave her no time to rest.
The cat , being thus hard beset , changed herself into a worm , and being nigh to a pomegranate that had accidentally fallen from a tree that grew on the side of a canal which was deep but not broad , the worm pierced the pomegranate in an instant , and hid itself.
The pomegranate swelled immediately , and became as big as a gourd , which , mounting up to the roof of the gallery , rolled there for some space backwards and forwards , fell down again into the court , and broke into several pieces.
The wolf , which had in the meanwhile transformed itself into a cock , fell to picking up the seeds of the pomegranate one after another , but finding no more , he came towards us with his wings spread , making a great noise , as if he would ask us whether there were any more seeds.
There was one lying on the brink of the canal , which the cock perceived as he went back , and ran speedily thither , but just as he was going to pick it up , the seed rolled into the river , and turned into a little fish.
The cock jumped into the river and was turned into a pike that pursued the small fish ; they continued both under water for over two hours , and we knew not what had become of them.
All of a sudden we heard terrible cries , which made us tremble , and a little while after we saw the genie and princess all in flames.
They threw flashes of fire out of their mouths at each other , till they came to close quarters ; then the two fires increased , with a thick burning smoke , which mounted so high that we had reason to fear it would set the palace on fire.
But we very soon had a more urgent reason for fear , for the genie , having got loose from the princess , came to the gallery where we stood , and blew flames of fire upon us.
We should all have perished if the princess , running to our assistance , had not by her cries forced him to retire , and defend himself against her ; yet , notwithstanding all her exertions , she could not hinder the sultan 's beard from being burnt , and his face spoiled , nor the chief of the chamberlains from being stifled and burnt on the spot.
The sultan and I expected nothing but death , when we heard a cry of ` Victory , victory ! ' and on a sudden the princess appeared in her natural shape , but the genie was reduced to a heap of ashes.
The princess came near to us that she might not lose time , called for a cupful of water , which the young slave , who had received no damage , brought her.
She took it , and after pronouncing some words over it , threw it upon me , saying , ` If thou art become an ape by enchantment , change thy shape , and take that of a man , which thou hadst before.
' These words were hardly uttered when I became a man as I was before.
I was preparing to give thanks to the princess , but she prevented me by addressing herself to her father , thus : ` person_1 , I have gained the victory over the genie , as your majesty may see ; but it is a victory that costs me dear.
I have but a few minutes to live , and you will not have the satisfaction of making the match you intended ; the fire has pierced me during the terrible combat , and I find it is consuming me by degrees.
This would not have happened had I perceived the last of the pomegranate seeds , and swallowed it as I did the others , when I was changed into a cock ; the genie had fled thither as to his last entrenchment , and upon that the success of the combat depended , without danger to me.
This slip obliged me to have recourse to fire , and to fight with those mighty arms as I did between heaven and earth , in your presence ; for , in spite of all his redoubtable art and experience , I made the genie know that I understood more than he.
I have conquered and reduced him to ashes , but I can not escape death , which is approaching.
' The sultan suffered the princess , the person_5 Or person_4 , to go on with the recital of her combat , and when she had done he spoke to her in a tone that sufficiently testified his grief : ` My daughter , ' said he , ` you see in what condition your father is ; alas ! I wonder that I am yet alive ! ' He could speak no more , for his tears , sighs and sobs made him speechless ; his daughter and I wept with him.
In the meantime , while we were vieing with each other in grief the princess cried , ` I burn ! I burn ! ' She found that the fire which consumed her had at last seized upon her whole body , which made her still cry ` I burn , ' until death had made an end of her intolerable pains.
The effect of that fire was so extraordinary that in a few moments she was wholly reduced to ashes , like the genie.
How grieved I was at so dismal a spectacle ! I had rather all my life have continued an ape or a dog than to have seen my benefactress thus miserably perish.
The sultan , being afflicted beyond all that can be imagined , cried out piteously , and beat himself on his head , until being quite overcome with grief , he fainted away , which made me fear for his life.
In the meantime the officers came running at the sultan 's cries , and with very much ado brought him to himself again.
There was no need for him and me to give them a long narrative of this adventure , in order to convince them of their great loss.
The two heaps of ashes , into which the princess and the genie had been reduced , were sufficient demonstration.
The sultan was hardly able to stand , but had to be supported till he could get to his apartment.
When the news of the tragical event had spread through the palace and the city , all the people bewailed the misfortune of the princess , the person_5 of person_4 , and were much affected by the sultan 's affliction.
Every one was in deep mourning for seven days , and many ceremonies were performed.
The ashes of the genie were thrown into the air , but those of the princess were gathered into a precious urn to be kept , and the urn was set in a stately tomb which was built for that purpose on the same place where the ashes had lain.
The grief which the sultan felt for the loss of his daughter threw him into a fit of illness , which confined him to his chamber for a whole month.
He had not fully recovered strength when he sent for me : ` Prince , ' said he , ` hearken to the orders that I now give you ; it will cost you your life if you do not put them into execution.
' I assured him of exact obedience , upon which he went on thus : ' I have constantly lived in perfect felicity , and was never crossed by any accident : but by your arrival all the happiness I possessed is vanished ; my daughter is dead , her attendant is no more , and it is through a miracle that I am yet alive.
You are the cause of all those misfortunes , for which it is impossible that I should be comforted ; therefore depart from hence in peace , without farther delay , for I myself must perish if you stay any longer : I am persuaded that your presence brings mischief along , with it.
This is all I have to say to you.
Depart , and beware of ever appearing again in my dominions ; no consideration whatsoever shall hinder me from making you repent of it.
' I was going to speak , but he stopped my mouth with words full of anger ; and so I was obliged to leave his palace , rejected , banished , an outcast from the world , and not knowing what would become of me.
And so I became a hermit"
Young Prince person_1 was brought up and educated in the palace under the care of the person_3 and person_4 of person_10.
He gave them great pleasure as he advanced in years by his agreeable manners , and by the justness of whatever he said ; person_3 his uncle , the queen his grandmother , and the princesses his relations , came from time to time to see him.
He was easily taught to read and write , and was instructed in all the sciences that became a prince of his rank.
When he arrived at the age of fifteen he was very wise and prudent.
The king , who had almost from his cradle discovered in him these virtues so necessary for a monarch , and who moreover began to perceive the infirmities of old age coming upon himself every day , would not wait till death gave him possession of the throne , but purposed to resign it to him.
He had no great difficulty to make his council consent to it ; and the people heard this with so much the more joy , because they considered Prince person_1 worthy to govern them.
They saw that he treated all mankind with that goodness which invited them to approach him ; that he heard favourably all who had anything to say to him ; that he answered everybody with a goodness that was peculiar to him ; and that he refused nobody anything that had the least appearance of justice.
The day for the ceremony was appointed.
In the midst of the whole assembly , which was larger than usual , the person_3 of person_10 , then sitting on his throne , came down from it , took the crown from off his head , put it on that of Prince person_1 , and having seated him in his place , kissed his hand , as a token that he resigned his authority to him.
After which he took his place among the crowd of viziers and emirs below the throne.
Hereupon the viziers , emirs , and other principal officers , came immediately and threw themselves at the new king 's feet , taking each the oath of fidelity according to their rank.
Then the grand vizier made a report of various important matters , on which the young king gave judgment with admirable prudence and sagacity that surprised all the council.
He next turned out several governors convicted of mal-administration , and put others in their place , with wonderful and just discernment.
He at length left the council , accompanied by the late king his father , and went to see his mother , person_4.
The queen no sooner saw him coming with his crown upon his head , than she ran to him , and embraced him with tenderness , wishing him a long and prosperous reign.
The first year of his reign person_3 acquitted himself of all his royal functions with great care.
Above all , he took care to inform himself of the state of his affairs , and all that might in any way contribute towards the happiness of his people.
Next year , having left the administration to his council , under the direction of the old king his father , he went out of his capital , under pretext of diverting himself with hunting ; but his real intention was to visit all the provinces of his kingdom , that he might reform all abuses there , establish good order and discipline everywhere , and take from all ill-minded princes , his neighbors , any opportunities of attempting any thing against the security and tranquillity of his subjects , by showing himself on his frontiers.
It required no less than a whole year for this young king to carry out his plans.
Soon after his return , the old king his father fell so dangerously ill that he knew at once he should never recover.
He waited for his last moment with great tranquillity , and his only care was to recommend the ministers and other lords of his son 's court to remain faithful to him : and there was not one but willingly renewed his oath as freely as at first.
He died , at length , to the great grief of person_3 and person_4 , who caused his corpse to be borne to a stately mausoleum , worthy of his rank and dignity.
The funeral ended , person_3 found no difficulty in complying with that ancient custom in person_10 to mourn for the dead a whole month , and not to be seen by anybody during all that time.
He would have mourned the death of his father his whole life , had it been right for a great prince thus to abandon himself to grief.
During this interval the queen , mother to person_4 , and person_3 , together with the princesses their relations , arrived at the person_10n court , and shared their affliction , before they offered any consolation.
When the month was expired , the king could not refuse admittance to the grand vizier and the other lords of his court , who besought him to lay aside his mourning , to show himself to his subjects , and take upon him the administration of affairs as before.
He showed such great reluctance at their request , that the grand vizier was forced to take upon himself to say to him ; ` Sir , neither our tears nor yours are capable of restoring life to the good king your father , though we should lament him all our days.
He has undergone the common law of all men , which subjects them to pay the indispensable tribute of death.
Yet we can not say absolutely that he is dead , since we see him in your sacred person.
He did not himself doubt , when he was dying , but that he should revive in you , and to your majesty it belongs to show that he was not deceived.
' person_3 could no longer oppose such pressing entreaties : he laid aside his mourning ; and after he had resumed the royal habit and ornaments , he began to provide for the necessities of his kingdom and subjects with the same care as before his father 's death.
He acquitted himself with universal approbation : and as he was exact in maintaining the ordinances of his predecessor , the people did not feel they had changed their sovereign.
person_3 , who had returned to his dominions in the sea with the queen his mother and the princesses , no sooner saw that person_3 had resumed the government , at the end of the month than he came alone to visit him ; and person_3 and person_4 were overjoyed to see him.
One evening when they rose from table , they talked of various matters.
person_3 began with the praises of the king his nephew , and expressed to the queen his sister how glad he was to see him govern so prudently , all of which had acquired him great reputation , not among his neighbors only , but more remote princes.
person_3 , who could not bear to hear himself so well spoken of , and not being willing , through good manners , to interrupt the king his uncle , turned on one side to sleep , leaning his head against a cushion that was behind him.
` Sister , ' said person_3 , ` I wonder you have not thought of marrying him ere this : if I mistake not , he is in his twentieth year ; and , at that age , no prince like him ought to be suffered to be without a wife.
I will think of a wife for him myself , since you will not , and marry him to some princess of our lower world that may be worthy of him.
' ` Brother , ' replied person_4 , ` I have never thought of it to this very moment , and I am glad you have spoken of it to me.
I like your proposing one of our princesses ; and I desire you to name one so beautiful and accomplished that the king my son may be obliged to love her.
' ` I know one that will suit , ' replied person_3 , softly ; ` but I see many difficulties to be surmounted , not on the lady 's part , as I hope , but on that of her father.
I need only mention to you the person_6 , daughter of the king of person_5.
' ` What ? ' replied person_4 , ` is not the person_6 yet married ? I remember to have seen her before I left your palace ; she was then about eighteen months old , and surprisingly beautiful , and must needs be the wonder of the world.
The few years she is older than the king my son ought not to prevent us from doing our utmost to bring it about.
Let me but know the difficulties that are to be surmounted , and we will surmount them.
' ` Sister , ' replied person_3 , ` the greatest difficulty is , that the person_3 of person_5 is insupportably vain , looking upon all others as his inferiors : it is not likely we shall easily get him to enter into this alliance.
For my part , I will go to him in person , and demand of him the princess his daughter ; and , in case he refuses her , we will address ourselves elsewhere , where we shall be more favourably heard.
For this reason , as you may perceive , ' added he , ` it is as well for the king my nephew not to know anything of our design , lest he should fall in love with the person_6 , till we have got the consent of the person_3 of person_5 , in case , after all , we should not be able to obtain her for him.
' They discoursed a little longer upon this point , and , before they parted , agreed that person_3 should forthwith return to his own dominions , and demand the person_6 of the person_3 of person_5 her father , for the person_3 of person_10 his nephew.
Now person_3 had heard what they said , and he immediately fell in love with the person_6 without having even seen her , and he lay awake thinking all night.
Next day person_3 took leave of person_4 and the king his nephew.
The young king , who knew the king his uncle would not have departed so soon but to go and promote his happiness without loss of time , changed color when he heard him mention his departure.
He resolved to desire his uncle to bring the princess away with him : but only asked him to stay with him one day more , that they might hunt together.
The day for hunting was fixed , and person_3 had many opportunities of being alone with his uncle , but he had not the courage to open his mouth.
In the heat of the chase , when person_3 was separated from him , and not one of his officers and attendants was near , he alighted near a rivulet ; and having tied his horse to a tree , which , with several others growing along the banks , afforded a very pleasing shade , he laid himself down on the grass.
He remained a good while absorbed in thought , without speaking a word.
person_3 , in the meantime , missing the king his nephew , began to be much concerned to know what had become of him.
He therefore left his company to go in search of him , and at length perceived him at a distance.
He had observed the day before , and more plainly that day , that he was not so lively as he used to be ; and that if he was asked a question , he either answered not at all , or nothing to the purpose.
As soon as person_3 saw him lying in that disconsolate posture , he immediately guessed he had heard what passed between him and person_4.
He hereupon alighted at some distance from him , and having tied his horse to a tree , came upon him so softly , that he heard him say to himself : ` Amiable princess of the kingdom of person_5 , I would this moment go and offer you my heart , if I knew where to find you.
' person_3 would hear no more ; he advanced immediately , and showed himself to person_3.
` From what I see , nephew , ' said he , ` you heard what the queen your mother and I said the other day of the person_6.
It was not our intention you should have known anything , and we thought you were asleep.
' ` My dear uncle , ' replied person_3 , ` I heard every word , but was ashamed to disclose to you my weakness.
I beseech you to pity me , and not wait to procure me the consent of the divine person_8 till you have gained the consent of the person_3 of person_5 that I may marry his daughter.
' These words of the person_3 of person_10 greatly embarrassed person_3.
He represented to him how difficult it was , and that he could not well do it without carrying him along with him ; which might be of dangerous consequence , since his presence was so absolutely necessary in his kingdom.
He begged him to wait.
But these reasons were not sufficient to satisfy the person_3 of person_10.
` Cruel Uncle , ' said he , ` I find you do not love me so much as you pretended , and that you had rather see me die than grant the first request I ever made you.
' ` I am ready to convince your majesty , ' replied person_3 , ` that I would do anything to serve you ; but as for carrying you along with me , I can not do that till I have spoken to the queen your mother.
What would she say of you and me ? If she consents , I am ready to do all you would have me , and I will join my entreaties to yours.
' ` If you do really love me , ' replied the person_3 of person_10 impatiently , ` as you would have me believe you do , you must return to your kingdom immediately , and carry me along with you.
' person_3 , finding himself obliged to yield to his nephew , drew from his finger a ring , on which were engraven the same mysterious names that were upon Solomon 's seal , that had wrought so many wonders by their virtue.
` Here , take this ring , ' said he , ` put it upon your finger , and fear neither the waters of the sea , nor their depth.
' The person_3 of person_10 took the ring , and when he had put it on his finger , person_3 said to him , ` Do as I do.
' At the same time they both mounted lightly up into the air , and made towards the sea which was not far distant , whereinto they both plunged.
The sea-king was not long in getting to his palace with the person_3 of person_10 , whom he immediately carried to the queen 's apartment , and presented him to her.
The person_3 of person_10 kissed the queen his grandmother 's hands , and she embraced him with great joy.
` I do not ask you how you are , ' said she to him ; ` I see you are very well , and I am rejoiced at it ; but I desire to know how is my daughter , your mother , person_4 ? ' The person_3 of person_10 told her the queen his mother was in perfect health.
Then the queen presented him to the princesses ; and while he was in conversation with them , she left him , and went with person_3 , who told her how the person_3 of person_10 was fallen in love with the person_6 , and that he had brought him along with him , without being able to hinder it.
Although person_3 was , to do him justice , perfectly innocent , yet the queen could hardly forgive his indiscretion in mentioning the person_6 before him.
` Your imprudence is not to be forgiven , ' said she to him : ` can you think that the person_3 of person_5 , whose character is so well known , will have greater consideration for you than the many other kings he has refused his daughter to with such evident contempt ? Would you have him send you away with the same confusion ? ' ` Madam , ' replied person_3 , ` I have already told you it was contrary to my intention that the king , my nephew , should hear what I related of the person_6 to the queen my sister.
The fault is committed ; I will therefore do all that I can to remedy it.
I hope , madam , you will approve of my resolution to go myself and wait upon the person_3 of person_5 , with a rich present of precious stones , and demand of him the princess , his daughter , for the person_3 of person_10 , your grandson.
I have some reason to believe he will not refuse me , but will be pleased at an alliance with one of the greatest potentates of the earth.
' ` It were to have been wished , ' replied the queen , ` that we had not been under a necessity of making this demand , since the success of our attempt is not so certain as we could desire ; but since my grandson 's peace and content depend upon it , I freely give my consent.
But , above all , I charge you , since you well know the temper of the person_3 of person_5 , that you take care to speak to him with due respect , and in a manner that can not possibly offend him.
' The queen prepared the present herself , composed of diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and strings of pearl ; all of which she put into a very neat and very rich box.
Next morning , person_3 took leave of her majesty and the person_3 of person_10 , and departed with a chosen and small troop of officers and other attendants.
He soon arrived at the kingdom and the palace of the person_3 of person_5 , who rose from his throne as soon as he perceived him ; and person_3 , forgetting his character for some moments , though knowing whom he had to deal with , prostrated himself at his feet , wishing him the accomplishment of all his desires.
The person_3 of person_5 immediately stooped to raise him up , and after he had placed him on his left hand , he told him he was welcome , and asked him if there was anything he could do to serve him.
` Sir , ' answered person_3 , ` though I should have no other motive than that of paying my respects to the most potent , most prudent , and most valiant prince in the world , feeble would be my expressions how much I honor your majesty.
' Having , spoken these words , he took the box of jewels from one of his servants and having opened it , presented it to the king , imploring him to accept it for his sake.
` Prince , ' replied the person_3 of person_5 , ` you would not make me such a present unless you had a request to propose.
If there be anything in my power , you may freely command it , and I shall feel the greatest pleasure in granting it.
Speak , and tell me frankly wherein I can serve you.
' ` I must own , ' replied person_3 , ` I have a boon to ask of your majesty ; and I shall take care to ask nothing but what is in your power to grant.
The thing depends so absolutely on yourself , that it would be to no purpose to ask it of any other.
I ask it then with all possible earnestness , and I beg of you not to refuse it me.
' ` If it be so , ' replied the person_3 of person_5 , ` you have nothing to do but acquaint me what it is , and you shall see after what manner I can oblige when it is in my power.
' ` Sir , ' said person_3 , ` after the confidence your majesty has been pleased to encourage me to put in your goodwill , I will not dissemble any longer.
I came to beg of you to honor our house with your alliance by the marriage of your honorable daughter the person_6 , and to strengthen the good understanding that has so long subsisted between our two crowns.
' At these words the person_3 of person_5 burst out laughing falling back in his throne against a cushion that supported him , and with an imperious and scornful air , said to person_3 : ` person_3 , I have always hitherto thought you a prince of great sense ; but what you say convinces me how much I was mistaken.
Tell me , I beseech you , where was your discretion , when you imagined to yourself so great an absurdity as you have just now proposed to me ? Could you conceive a thought only of aspiring in marriage to a princess , the daughter of so great and powerful a king as I am ? You ought to have considered better beforehand the great distance between us , and not run the risk of losing in a moment the esteem I always had for your person.
' person_3 was extremely nettled at this affronting , answer , and had much ado to restrain his resentment ; however , he replied , with all possible moderation , ` God reward your majesty as you deserve ! I have the honor to inform you , I do not demand the princess your daughter in marriage for myself ; had I done so your majesty and the princess ought to have been so far from being offended , that you should have thought it an honor done to both.
Your majesty well knows I am one of the kings of the sea as well as yourself ; that the kings , my ancestors , yield not in antiquity to any other royal families ; and that the kingdom I inherit from them is no less potent and flourishing than it has ever been.
If your majesty had not interrupted me , you had soon understood that the favor I ask of you was not for myself , but for the young person_3 of person_10 , my nephew , whose power and grandeur , no less than his personal good qualities , can not be unknown to you.
Everybody acknowledges the person_6 to be the most beautiful person in the world : but it is no less true that the young person_3 of person_10 , my nephew , is the best and most accomplished prince on the land.
Thus the favor that is asked being likely to redound both to the honor of your majesty and the princess your daughter , you ought not to doubt that your consent to an alliance so equal will be unanimously approved in all the kingdoms of the sea.
The princess is worthy of the person_3 of person_10 , and the person_3 of person_10 is no less worthy of her.
No king or prince in the world can dispute her with him.
' The person_3 of person_5 would not have let person_3 go on so long after this rate , had not the rage he put him in deprived him of all power of speech.
It was some time before he could find his tongue , so much was he transported with passion.
At length , however , he broke into outrageous language , unworthy of a great king.
` Dog ! ' cried he , ` dare you talk to me after this manner , and so much as mention my daughter 's name in my presence ? Can you think the son of your sister person_9 worthy to come in competition with my daughter ? Who are you ? Who was your father ? Who is your sister ? And who your nephew ? Was not his father a dog , and a son of a dog , like you ? Guards , seize the insolent wretch , and cut off his head.
' The few officers that were about the person_3 of person_5 were immediately going to obey his orders , when person_3 , who was nimble and vigorous , got from them before they could draw their sabres ; and having reached the palace gate , he there found a thousand men of his relations and friends , well armed and equipped , who had just arrived.
The queen his mother having considered the small number of attendants he took with him , and , moreover , foreseeing the bad reception he would probably have from the person_3 of person_5 , had sent these troops to protect and defend him in case of danger , ordering them to make haste.
Those of his relations who were at the head of this troop had reason to rejoice at their seasonable arrival , when they beheld him and his attendants come running in great disorder and pursued.
` Sir , ' cried his friends , the moment he joined them , ` what is the matter ? We are ready to revenge you : you need only command us.
' person_3 related his case to them in as few words as he could , and putting himself at the head of a large troop , he , while some seized on the gates , re-entered the palace as before.
The few officers and guards who had pursued him being soon dispersed , he re-entered the person_3 of person_5 's apartment , who , being abandoned by his attendants , was soon seized.
person_3 left sufficient guards to secure his person , and then went from apartment to apartment , in search of the person_6.
But that princess , on the first alarm , had , together with her women , sprung up to the surface of the sea , and escaped to a desert island.
While this was passing in the palace of the person_3 of person_5 , those of person_3 's attendants who had fled at the first menaces of that king put the queen mother into terrible consternation upon relating the danger her son was in.
person_3 , who was by at that time , was the more concerned , in that he looked upon himself as the principal author of all the mischief : therefore , not caring to abide in the queen 's presence any longer , he darted up from the bottom of the sea ; and , not knowing how to find his way to the kingdom of person_10 , he happened to light on the island where the person_6 had taken refuge.
The prince , not a little disturbed in mind , went and seated himself under the shade of a large tree.
Whilst he was endeavoring to recover himself , he heard somebody talking , but was too far off to understand what was said.
He arose and advanced softly towards the place whence the sound came , where , among the branches , he perceived a most beautiful lady.
` Doubtless , ' said he , within himself , stopping and considering her with great attention , ` this must be the person_6 , whom fear has obliged to abandon her father 's palace.
' This said , he came forward , and approached the princess with profound reverence.
` Madam , ' said he , ` a greater happiness could not have befallen me than this opportunity to offer you my most humble services.
I beseech you , therefore , madam , to accept them , it being impossible that a lady in this solitude should not want assistance.
' ` True , my lord , ' replied person_8 very sorrowfully , ` it is not a little extraordinary for a lady of my rank to be in this situation.
I am a princess , daughter of the person_3 of person_5 , and my name is person_8.
I was in my father 's palace , when all of a sudden I heard a dreadful noise : news was immediately brought me that person_3 , I know not for what reason , had forced his way into the palace , seized the king my father , and murdered all the guards that made any resistance.
I had only time to save myself , and escaped hither from his violence.
' At these words of the princess , person_3 began to be concerned that he had quitted his grandmother so hastily , without staying to hear from her an explanation of the news that had been brought her.
But he was , on the other hand , overjoyed to find that the king , his uncle , had rendered himself master of the person_3 of person_5 's person , not doubting but that he would consent to give up the princess for his liberty.
` Adorable princess , ' continued he , ` your concern is most just , but it is easy to put an end both to that and to your father 's captivity.
You will agree with me when I tell you that I am person_1 , person_3 of person_10 , and person_3 is my uncle ; I assure you , madam , he has no design to seize upon the king your father 's dominions ; his only intent is to obtain his consent that I may have the honor and happiness of being his son-in-law.
I had already given my heart to you , and now , far from repenting of what I have done , I beg of you to be assured that I will love you as long as I live.
Permit me , then , beauteous princess ! to have the honor to go and present you to the king my uncle ; and the king your father shall no sooner have consented to our marriage , than person_3 will leave him sovereign of his dominions as before.
' This declaration of person_3 did not produce the effect he expected.
When the princess heard from his own mouth that he had been the occasion of the ill-treatment her father had suffered , of the grief and fright she had endured , and especially the necessity she was reduced to of flying her country , she looked upon him as an enemy with whom she ought to have nothing whatever to do.
person_3 , believing himself arrived at the very pinnacle of happiness , stretched forth his hand , and taking that of the princess ' stooped down to kiss it , when she , pushing him back , said , ` Wretch , quit that form of a man , and take that of a white bird , with a red bill and feet.
' Upon her pronouncing these words , person_3 was immediately changed into a bird of that sort , to his great surprise and mortification.
` Take him , ' said she to one of her women , ` and carry him to the Dry Island.
' This island was only one frightful rock , where there was not a drop of water to be had.
The waiting-woman took the bird , and in executing her princess 's orders had compassion on person_3 's destiny.
` It would be a great pity , ' said she to herself , ` to let a prince , so worthy to live , die of hunger and thirst.
The princess , so good and gentle , will , it may be , repent of this cruel order when she comes to herself : it were better that I carried him to a place where he may die a natural death.
' She accordingly carried him to a well-frequented island , and left him in a charming plain , planted with all sorts of fruit trees , and watered by several rivulets.
Let us return to person_3.
After he had sought a good while for the person_6 , and ordered others to seek for her , to no purpose , he caused the person_3 of person_5 to be shut up in his own palace , under a strong guard ; and having given the necessary orders for governing the kingdom in his absence , he returned to give the queen his mother an account of what he had done.
The first thing he asked upon his arrival was of the whereabouts of the king his nephew , and he learned with great surprise and vexation that he had disappeared.
` News being brought me , ' said the queen , ` of the danger you were in at the palace of the person_3 of person_5 , whilst I was giving orders to send other troops to avenge you , he disappeared.
He must have been frightened at hearing of your being in so great danger , and did not think himself in sufficient safety with us.
' This news exceedingly afflicted person_3 , who now repented of his being so easily wrought upon by person_3 as to carry him away with him without his mother 's consent.
Whilst he was in this suspense about his nephew , he left his kingdom under the administration of his mother , and went to govern that of the person_3 of person_5 , whom he continued to keep under great vigilance , though with all due respect to his rank.
The same day that person_3 returned to the kingdom of person_5 , person_4 , mother to person_3 , arrived at the court of the queen her mother.
The princess was not at all surprised to find her son did not return the same day he set out , it being not uncommon for him to go further than he proposed in the heat of the chase ; but when she saw that he returned neither the next day , nor the day after , she began to be alarmed.
This alarm was increased when the officers , who had accompanied the king , and were obliged to return after they had for a long time sought in vain for both him and his uncle , came and told her majesty they must of necessity have come to some harm , or be together in some place which they could not guess , since they could hear no tidings of them.
Their horses , indeed , they had found , but as for their persons , they knew not where to look for them.
The queen , hearing this , had resolved to dissemble and conceal her affliction , bidding the officers to search once more with their utmost diligence ; but in the mean time , saying nothing to anybody , she plunged into the sea , to satisfy herself as to the suspicion she had that person_3 must have carried away his nephew along with him.
This great queen would have been more affectionately received by the queen her mother , had she not , upon first sight of her , guessed the occasion of her coming.
` Daughter , ' said she , ` I plainly perceive you are not come hither to visit me ; you come to inquire after the king your son ; and the only news I can tell you will augment both your grief and mine.
I no sooner saw him arrive in our territories , than I rejoiced ; yet , when I came to understand he had come away without your knowledge , I began to share with you the concern you must needs feel.
' Then she related to her with what zeal person_3 went to demand the person_6 in marriage for person_3 , and what had happened , till her son disappeared.
' I have sent diligently after him , ' added she , ` and the king my son , who is but just gone to govern the kingdom of person_5 , has done all that lay in his power.
All our endeavors have hitherto proved unsuccessful , but we must hope nevertheless to see him again , perhaps when we least expect it.
' person_4 was not satisfied with this hope ; she looked upon the king her dear son as lost , and lamented him bitterly , laying all the blame upon the king his uncle.
The queen her mother made her consider the necessity of not yielding too much to her grief.
` The king your brother , ' said she , ` ought not , it is true , to have talked to you so imprudently about that marriage , nor ever have consented to carry away the king my grandson , without acquainting you first ; yet , since it is not certain that the person_3 of person_10 is absolutely lost , you ought to neglect nothing to preserve his kingdom for him : lose , then , no more time , but return to your capital ; your presence there will be necessary , and it will not be hard for you to preserve the public peace , by causing it to be published that the person_3 of person_10 was gone to visit his grandmother.
' person_4 yielded.
She took leave of the queen her mother , and was back in the palace of the capital of person_10 before she had been missed.
She immediately despatched persons to recall the officers she had sent after the king , and to tell them she knew where his majesty was , and that they should soon see him again.
She also governed with the prime minister and council as quietly as if the king had been present.
To return to person_3 , whom the person_6 's waiting-woman had carried and left in the island before mentioned ; that monarch was not a little surprised when he found himself alone , and under the form of a bird.
He felt yet more unhappy that he knew not where he was , nor in what part of the world the kingdom of person_10 lay.
He was forced to remain where he was , and live upon such food as birds of his kind were wont to eat , and to pass the night on a tree.
A few days after , a peasant that was skilled in taking birds with nets chanced to come to the place where he was ; when perceiving so fine a bird , the like of which he had never seen before , he began greatly to rejoice.
He employed all his art to catch him , and at length succeeded.
Overjoyed at so great a prize , which he looked upon as of more worth than all the other birds , because so rare , he shut it up in a cage , and carried it to the city.
As soon as he was come into the market , a citizen stops him , and asked him how much he wanted for that bird.
Instead of answering , the peasant asked the citizen what he would do with him in case he should buy him ? ` What wouldst thou have me to do with him , ' answered the citizen , ` but roast and eat him ? ' ` If that be the case , ' replied the peasant , ` I suppose you would think me very well paid if you gave me the smallest piece of silver for him.
I set a much higher value upon him , and you should not have him for a piece of gold.
Although I am advanced in years , I never saw such a bird in my life.
I intend to make a present of him to the king ; he will know the value of him better than you.
' Without staying any longer in the market , the peasant went directly to the palace , and placed himself exactly before the king 's apartment.
His majesty , being at a window where he could see all that passed in the court , no sooner cast his eyes on this beautiful bird , than he sent an officer to buy it for him.
The officer , going to the peasant , asked him how much he wanted for that bird.
` If it be for his majesty , ' answered the peasant , ` I humbly beg of him to accept it of me as a present , and I desire you to carry it to him.
' The officer took the bird to the king , who found it so great a rarity that he ordered the same officer to take ten pieces of gold , and carry them to the peasant , who departed very well satisfied.
The king ordered the bird to be put into a magnificent cage , and gave it seed and water in rich vessels.
His majesty being then ready to go hunting , had not time to consider the bird , therefore had it brought to him as soon as he came back.
The officer brought the cage , and the king , that he might better see the bird , took it out himself , and perched it upon his hand.
Looking earnestly at it , he asked the officer if he had seen it eat.
` Sir , ' replied the officer , ` your majesty may observe the vessel with his food is still full , and he has not touched any of it.
' Then the king ordered him meat of various sorts , that he might take what he liked best.
The table being spread , and dinner served up just as the king had given these orders , the bird , flapping his wings , hopped off the king 's hand , and flew on to the table , where he began to peck the bread and victuals , sometimes on one plate , and sometimes on another.
The king was so surprised , that he immediately sent the officer to desire the queen to come and see this wonder.
The officer related it to her majesty , and she came forthwith : but she no sooner saw the bird , than she covered her face with her veil , and would have retired.
The king , surprised at her proceeding , asked the reason of it.
` Sir , ' answered the queen , ` your majesty will no longer be surprised when you understand that this bird is not , as you take it , a bird , but a man.
' ` Madam , ' said the king , more astonished than before , ` you are making fun of me ; you shall never persuade me that a bird can be a man.
' ` Sir , ' replied the queen , ` far be it from me to make fun of your majesty ; nothing is more certain than what I have had the honor to tell you.
I can assure your majesty it is the person_3 of person_10 , named person_1 , son of the celebrated person_9 , princess of one of the largest kingdoms of the sea , nephew of person_7 , king of that kingdom , and grandson of person_4 Farasche , mother of person_9 and person_7 ; and it was the person_6 , daughter of the person_3 of person_5 , who thus metamorphosed him into a bird.
' That the king might no longer doubt of what she affirmed , she told him the whole story , how and for what reason the person_6 , had thus revenged herself for the ill-treatment of person_3 towards the king of person_5 , her father.
The king had less difficulty in believing this assertion of the queen in that he knew her to be a skilful magician , one of the greatest in the world.
And as she knew everything which took place , he was always by her means timely informed of the designs of the kings his neighbors against him , and prevented them.
His majesty had compassion on the person_3 of person_10 , and earnestly besought his queen to break the enchantment , that he might return to his own form.
The queen consented to it with great willingness.
` Sir , ' said she to the king , ` be pleased to take the bird into your room , and I will show you a king worthy of the consideration you have for him.
' The bird , which had ceased eating , and attended to what the king and queen said , would not give his majesty the trouble to take him , but hopped into the room before him ; and the queen came in soon after , with a vessel full of water in her hand.
She pronounced over the vessel some words unknown to the king , till the water began to boil , when she took some of it in her hand , and , sprinkling a little upon the bird , said , ` By virtue of these holy and mysterious words I have just pronounced , quit that form of a bird , and reassume that which thou hast received from thy Creator.
' The words were scarcely out of the queen 's mouth , when , instead of a bird , the king saw a young prince.
person_3 immediately fell on his knees , and thanked God for the favor that had been bestowed upon him.
Then he took the king 's hand , who helped him up , and kissed it in token of gratitude ; but the king embraced him with great joy.
He would then have made his acknowledgments to the queen , but she had already retired to her apartment.
The king made him sit at the table with him , and , after dinner was over , prayed him to relate how the person_6 could have had the inhumanity to transform into a bird so amiable a prince as he was ; and the person_3 of person_10 immediately told him.
When he had done , the king , provoked at the proceeding of the princess , could not help blaming her.
` It was commendable , ' said he , ` in the person_6 of person_5 to feel hurt at the king her father 's ill-treatment ; but to carry her vengeance so far , and especially against a prince who was not guilty , was what she will never be able to justify herself for.
But let us have done with this discourse , and tell me , I beseech you , in what I can further serve you.
' ` Sir , ' answered person_3 , ` my obligation to your majesty is so great , that I ought to remain with you all my life to testify my gratitude ; but since your majesty sets no limits to your generosity , I entreat you to grant me one of your ships to transport me to person_10 , where I fear my absence , which has been but too long , may have occasioned some disorder , and that the queen my mother , from whom I concealed my departure , may be dead of grief , under the uncertainty whether I am alive or dead.
' The king granted what he desired with the best grace imaginable , and immediately gave orders for equipping one of his largest ships , and the best sailor in his numerous fleet.
The ship was soon furnished with all its crew , provisions , and ammunition ; and as soon as the wind became fair , person_3 embarked , after having taken leave of the king , and thanked him for all his favors.
The ship sailed before the wind for ten days ; on the eleventh day the wind changed , and becoming very violent , there followed a furious tempest.
The ship was not only driven out of its course , but so violently tossed , that all its masts went by the board ; and driving along at the pleasure of the wind , it at length struck against a rock and split open.
The greater part of the people were instantly drowned.
Some few were saved by swimming , and others by getting on pieces of the wreck.
person_3 was among the latter , and , after having been tossed about for some time by the waves and currents , he at length perceived himself near the shore , and not far from a city that seemed large.
He exerted his remaining strength to reach the land , and was at length fortunate to come so near as to be able to touch the ground with his feet.
He immediately abandoned his piece of wood , which had been of so great service to him ; but when he came near the shore he was greatly surprised to see horses , camels , mules , asses , oxen , cows , bulls , and other animals crowding to the shore to oppose his landing.
He had the utmost difficulty to conquer their obstinacy and force his way ; but at length he succeeded , and sheltered himself among the rocks till he had recovered his breath , and dried his clothes in the sun.
When the prince advanced to enter the city , he met with the same opposition from these animals , who seemed to want to make him understand that it was dangerous to proceed.
person_3 , however , got into the city soon after , and saw many fair and spacious streets , but was surprised to find no man there.
This made him think it was not without cause that so many animals had opposed his passage.
Going forward , nevertheless , he observed several shops open , which gave him reason to believe the place was not so destitute of inhabitants as he imagined.
He approached one of these shops , where several sorts of fruits were exposed to sale , and saluted very courteously an old man that was sitting there.
The old man , who was busy about something , lifted up his head , and seeing a youth who had an appearance of grandeur , started , and asked him whence he came , and what business had brought him there.
person_3 satisfied him in a few words ; and the old man further asked him if he had met anybody on the road.
` You are the first person I have seen , ' answered the king ; ` and I can not comprehend how so fine and large a city comes to be without inhabitants.
' ` Come in , sir ; stay no longer upon the threshold , ' replied the old man , ` or peradventure some misfortune may happen to you.
I will satisfy your curiosity at leisure , and give you the reason why it is necessary you should take this precaution.
' person_3 would not be bidden twice : he entered the shop , and sat down by the old man.
The latter knew he must want food , therefore immediately presented him with what was necessary to recover his strength ; and although person_3 was very anxious to know why he had taken the precaution to make him enter the shop , the old man nevertheless would not tell him anything till he had done eating , for fear the sad things he had to relate might take away his appetite.
At last he said to him , ` You have great reason to thank God you got hither without any misfortune.
' ` Alas ! why ? ' replied king person_1 , very much surprised and alarmed.
` Because , ' answered he , ` this city is called the City of Enchantments , and is governed not by a king , but by a queen , who is a notorious and dangerous sorceress.
You will be convinced of this , ' added he , ` when you know that these horses , mules , and other animals that you have seen are so many men , like you and me , whom she has transformed by her diabolical art.
And when young men like you enter the city , she has persons stationed to stop and bring them , either by fair means or force , before her.
She receives them in the most obliging manner ; she caresses them , regales them , and lodges them magnificently.
But she does not suffer them long to enjoy this happiness.
There is not one of them whom she has not transformed into some animal or bird at the end of forty days.
You told me all these animals opposed your landing and entering , the city.
This was the only way they could make you comprehend the danger you were going to expose yourself to , and they did all in their power to save you.
' This account exceedingly afflicted the young person_3 of person_10.
` Alas ! ' cried he , ` to what extremities has my ill-fortune reduced me ! I am hardly freed from one enchantment , which I look back upon with horror , but I find myself exposed to another much more terrible.
' This gave him occasion to relate his story to the old man more at length , and to acquaint him with his birth , quality , his falling in love with the person_6 of person_5 , and her cruelty in changing him into a bird the very moment he had seen her and declared his love to her.
When the prince came to speak of his good fortune in finding a queen who broke the enchantment , the old man , to encourage him , said , ` Notwithstanding all I told you of the magic queen , that ought not to give you the least disquiet , since I am generally beloved throughout the city , and am not unknown to the queen herself , who has much respect for me ; therefore it was singularly fortunate that you addressed yourself to me rather than elsewhere.
You are secure in my house , where I advise you to continue , if you think fit ; and provided you do not stray from hence , I dare assure you you will have no just cause to complain ; so that you are under no sort of constraint whatsoever.
' person_3 thanked the old man for his kind reception , and the protection he was pleased so readily to afford him.
He sat down at the entrance of the shop , where he no sooner appeared than his youth and handsome looks drew the eyes of all that passed that way.
Many stopped and complimented the old man on his having acquired so fine a slave , as they imagined the king to be ; and they were the more surprised , because they could not comprehend how so beautiful a youth could escape the queen 's knowledge.
` Believe not , ' said the old man , ` that this is a slave ; you all know that I am not rich enough.
He is my nephew , son of a brother of mine that is dead ; and as I had no children of my own , I sent for him to keep me company.
' They congratulated his good fortune in having so fine a young man for his relation ; but could not help telling him they feared the queen would take him from him.
` You know her well , ' said they , ` and you can not be ignorant of the danger to which you are exposed , after all the examples you have seen.
How grieved would you be if she should serve him as she has done so many others that we know of ! ' ` I am obliged to you , ' replied the old man , ` for your good will towards me , and I heartily thank you for your care ; but I shall never entertain the least thought that the queen will do me any injury , after all the kindness she has professed for me.
In case she happens to hear of this young man , and speaks to me about him , I doubt not she will cease to think of him , so soon as she comes to know he is my nephew.
' The old man was exceedingly glad to hear the commendations they bestowed on the young person_3 of person_10.
He became as fond of him as if he had been his own son.
They had lived about a month together , when , person_3 sitting at the shop-door , after his ordinary manner , person_4 -LRB- so was this magic queen named -RRB- happened to come by with great pomp.
The young king no sooner perceived the guards coming before her , than he arose , and , going into the shop , asked the old man what all that show meant.
` The queen is coming by , ' answered he , ` but stand still and fear nothing.
' The queen 's guards , clothed in purple uniform , and well armed and mounted , marched in four files , with their sabres drawn , to the number of a thousand , and every one of their officers , as they passed by the shop , saluted the old man : then followed a like number habited in brocaded silk , and better mounted , whose officers did the old man the like honor.
Next came as many young ladies on foot , equally beautiful , richly dressed , and set off with precious stones.
They marched gravely , with half pikes in their hands ; and in the midst of them appeared person_4 , on a horse glittering with diamonds , with a golden saddle , and a harness of inestimable value.
All the young ladies saluted the old man as they passed by him ; and the queen , struck with the good mien of person_3 , stopped as soon as she came before the shop.
` person_2 ' -LRB- so was the old man named -RRB- , said she to him , ` tell me , I beseech thee , does that beautiful and charming slave belong to thee ? and is it long that thou hast been in possession of him ? ' person_2 , before he answered the queen , threw himself on the ground , and rising again , said , ` Madam , it is my nephew , son of a brother I had , who has not long been dead.
Having no children , I look upon him as my son , and sent for him to come and comfort me , intending to leave him what I have when I die.
' person_4 , who had never yet seen any one to compare with person_3 , thought immediately of getting the old man to abandon him to her.
` Father , ' quoth she , ` will you not oblige me so far as to make me a present of this young man ? Do not refuse me , I conjure you ; and I swear by the fire and the light , I will make him so great and powerful that no individual in the world ever arrived at such good fortune.
Although my purpose were to do evil to all mankind , yet he shall be the sole exception.
I trust you will grant me what I desire , more on the account of the friendship I know you have for me , than for the esteem you know I always had , and shall ever have for you.
' ` Madam , ' replied the good person_2 , ` I am infinitely obliged to your majesty for all your kindness , and the honors you propose to do my nephew.
He is not worthy to approach so great a queen , and I humbly beseech your majesty to excuse him.
' ` person_2 , ' replied the queen , ` I all along flattered myself you loved me ; and I could never have thought you would have given me so evident a token of your slighting my request.
But I here swear once more by the fire and light , and even by whatsoever is most sacred in my religion , that I will pass on no farther till I have conquered your obstinacy.
I understand very well what raises your apprehensions ; but I promise you shall never have any occasion to repent having obliged me in so sensible a manner.
' Old person_2 was exceedingly grieved , both on his own account and person_3 's , for being in a manner forced to obey the queen.
` Madam , ' replied he , ` I would not willingly have your majesty entertain an ill opinion of the respect I have for you , and my zeal always to do whatever I can to oblige you.
I put entire confidence in your royal word , and I do not in the least doubt but you will keep it.
I only beg of your majesty to delay doing this great honor to my nephew till you shall again pass this way.
' ` That shall be to-morrow , ' said the queen , who inclined her head , as a token of being pleased , and so went forward towards her palace.
When person_4 and all her attendants were out of sight , the good person_2 said to person_3 , ` Son , -LRB- for so he was wont to call him , for fear of some time or other betraying him when he spoke of him in public -RRB- , ` it has not been in my power , as you may have observed , to refuse the queen what she demanded of me with so great earnestness , for fear I might force her to employ her magic both against you and myself openly or secretly , and treat you , as much from resentment to you as to me , with more signal cruelty than all those she has had in her power before.
But I have some reason to believe she will treat you well , as she promised , on account of that particular esteem she professes for me.
This you may have seen by the respect shown , and the honors paid me by all her court.
She would be a fiendish creature indeed , if she should deceive me ; but she shall not deceive me unrevenged , for I know how to be even with her.
' These assurances , which appeared very doubtful , were not sufficient to raise person_3 's spirits.
` After all you have told me of this queen 's wickedness , ' replied he , ` you can not wonder if I am somewhat fearful to approach her : I might , it may be , make little of all you could tell me of her , did I not know by experience what it is to be at the mercy of a sorceress.
The condition I was in , through the enchantment of the person_6 , and from whence I was delivered only to enter almost immediately into another , has made me look upon such a fate with horror.
` Son , ' replied old person_2 , ` do not afflict yourself ; for though I must own there is no great faith to be put in the promises and oaths of so perfidious a queen , yet I must withal tell you that her power extends not to me.
She knows it well herself ; and that is the reason , and no other , that she pays me such great respect.
I can quickly hinder her from doing you the least harm , if she should be perfidious enough to attempt it.
You may depend upon me ; and , provided you follow exactly the advice I shall give you before I hand you over to her , she shall have no more power over you than she has over me.
' The magic queen did not fail to pass by the old man 's shop the next day , with the same pomp as the day before , and person_2 waited for her with great respect.
` Father , ' cried she , stopping just before him , ` you may judge of my impatience to have your nephew with me , by my punctual coming to put you in mind of your promise.
I know you are a man of your word , and I can not think you will break it with me.
' person_2 , who fell on his face as soon as he saw the queen approaching , rose up when she had done speaking ; and as he wanted nobody to hear what he had a mind to say to her , he advanced with great respect as far as her horse 's head , and then said softly , ` Powerful queen ! I am persuaded your majesty will not be offended at my seeming unwillingness to trust my nephew with you yesterday , since you can not be ignorant of the reasons I had for it ; but I implore you to lay aside the secrets of that art which you possess in so wonderful a degree.
I regard my nephew as my own son ; and your majesty would reduce me to despair if you should deal with him as you have done with others.
' ` I promise you I will not , ' replied the queen ; ` and I once more repeat the oath I made yesterday , that neither you nor your nephew shall have any cause to be offended with me.
I see plainly , ' added she , ` you are not yet well enough acquainted with me ; you never saw me yet but through a veil ; but as I find your nephew worthy of my friendship , I will show you I am not in any way unworthy of his.
' With that she threw off her veil and showed person_3 , who came near her with person_2 , incomparable beauty.
But person_3 was little charmed.
` It is not enough , ' said he within himself , ` to be beautiful ; one 's actions ought to correspond.
' Whilst person_3 was making these reflections , with his eyes fixed on person_4 , the old man turned towards him , and taking him by the arm , presented him to her majesty.
` Here he is , madam , ' said he , ` and I beg of your majesty once more to remember he is my nephew , and to let him come and see me sometimes.
' The queen promised he should ; and to give a further mark of her gratitude , she caused a bag of a thousand pieces of gold to be given him.
He excused himself at first from receiving them , but she insisted absolutely upon it , and he could not refuse her.
She had caused a horse to be brought -LRB- as richly harnessed as her own -RRB- for the person_3 of person_10.
When person_3 was mounted , he would have taken his place behind the queen , but she would not suffer him , and made him ride on her left hand.
She looked at person_2 , and after having made him an inclination with her head , she set forward on her march.
Instead of observing a satisfaction in the people 's faces at the sight of their sovereign , person_3 took notice that they looked at her with contempt , and even cursed her.
` The sorceress , ' said some , ` has got a new subject to exercise her wickedness upon : will Heaven never deliver the world from her tyranny ? ' ` Poor stranger ! ' cried out others , ` thou art much deceived if thou thinkest thine happiness will last long.
It is only to render thy fall most terrible that thou art raised so high.
' This talk gave person_3 to understand that person_2 had told him nothing but the truth of person_4 : but as it now depended no longer on himself to escape the mischief , he committed himself to divine Providence and the will of Heaven respecting his fate.
The magic queen arrived at her palace ; she alighted , and giving her hand to person_3 , entered with him , accompanied by her women and the officers.
She herself showed him all her apartments , where there was nothing to be seen but massy gold , precious stones , and furniture of wonderful magnificence.
Then she led him out into a balcony , from whence he observed a garden of surprising beauty.
person_3 commended all he saw , but so that he might not be discovered to be any other than old person_2 's nephew.
They discoursed of indifferent matters , till the queen was informed that dinner was upon the table.
The queen and person_3 arose , and sat down at the table , which was of massy gold , and the dishes of the same metal.
They began to eat , but drank hardly at all till the dessert came , when the queen caused a cup to be filled for her with excellent wine.
She took it and drank to person_3 's health ; and then , without putting it out of her hand , caused it to be filled again , and presented it to him.
person_3 received it with profound respect , and by a very low bow signified to her majesty that he in return drank to her health.
At the same time ten of person_4 's women entered with musical instruments , with which they made an agreeable concert.
At length both began so to be heated with wine , that person_3 forgot he had to do with a magic queen , and looked upon her only as the most beautiful queen he ever saw.
Next morning the women who had served the king presented him with fine linen and a magnificent robe.
The queen likewise , who was more splendidly dressed than the day before , came to receive him , and they went together to her apartments , where they had a good repast brought them , and spent the remainder of the day in walking in the garden , and in various other amusements.
person_4 treated person_3 after this manner for forty days , as she had been accustomed to do to all the others.
The fortieth night she arose without making any noise and came into his room ; but he was awake , and perceiving she had some design upon him , watched all her motions.
She opened a chest , from whence she took a little box full of a certain yellow powder ; taking some of the powder , she laid a train of it across the chamber , and it immediately flowed in a rivulet of water , to the great astonishment of person_3.
He trembled with fear , but still pretended to sleep , that the sorceress might not discover he was awake.
person_4 next took up some of the water in a vessel , and poured it into a basin , where there was flour , with which she made a paste , and kneaded it for a long time : then she mixed with it certain drugs , which she took from different boxes , and made a cake , which she put into a covered baking-pan.
As she had taken care first of all to make a good fire , she took some of the coals , and set the pan upon them ; and while the cake was baking , she put up the vessels and boxes in their places again ; and on her pronouncing certain words , the rivulet , which ran along the end of the room , appeared no more.
When the cake was baked , she took it off the coals , and carried it into her room , without the least suspicion that he had seen anything of what she had done.
person_3 , whom the pleasures and amusements of a court had made forget his good host person_2 , began now to think of him again , and believed he had more than ordinary occasion for his advice , after all he had seen the queen do that night.
As soon as he was up , therefore , he expressed a great desire to go and see his uncle , and begged her majesty to permit him.
` What ! my dear person_1 , ' cried the queen , ` are you then already tired , I will not say with living in so superb a palace as mine is , where you must find so many pleasures , but with the company of a queen who is so fond of you as I am ? ' ` Great queen ! ' answered person_3 , ` how can I be tired of so many favors and graces as your majesty perpetually heaps upon me ? I must own , however , it is partly for this reason , that , my uncle loving me so tenderly , as I well know he does , and I having been absent from him now forty days , without once seeing him , I would not give him reason to think that I consent to remain longer without seeing him.
' ` Go , ' said the queen , ` you have my consent ; but do not be long before you return.
' This said , she ordered him a horse richly caparisoned , and he departed.
Old person_2 was overjoyed to see person_3 ; he embraced him tenderly , and person_3 did the same.
As soon as they had sat down , ` Well , ' said person_2 to the king , ` how have you been , and how have you passed your time with that infidel sorceress ? ' ` Hitherto , ' answered person_3 , ` I must needs own she has been extraordinarily kind to me , but I observed something last night which gives me just reason to suspect that all her kindness hitherto is but dissimulation.
' He related to person_2 how and after what manner he had seen her make the cake ; and then added , ` Hitherto , I must needs confess I had almost forgotten , not only you , but all the advice you gave me concerning the wickedness of this queen ; but this last action of hers gives me reason to fear she does not intend to observe any of her promises or solemn oaths to you.
I thought of you immediately , and I esteem myself happy in that I have obtained permission to come to you.
' ` You are not mistaken , ' replied old person_2 with a smile , which showed he did not himself believe she would have acted otherwise , ` nothing is capable of obliging a treacherous person to amend.
But fear nothing.
I know the way to make the mischief she intends for you fall upon herself.
You are alarmed in time ; and you could not have done better than to have recourse to me.
It is her ordinary practice to keep her lovers only forty days , and after that time , instead of sending them home , to turn them into animals , to stock her forests and parks ; but I thought of measures yesterday to prevent her doing you the same harm.
The earth has borne this monster long enough , and it is now high time she should be treated as she deserves.
' So saying , person_2 put two cakes into person_3 's hands , bidding him keep them to make use of as he should direct.
` You told me , ' continued he , ` the sorceress made a cake last night ; it was for you to eat , depend upon it ; but take great care you do not touch it.
Nevertheless , do not refuse to receive it when she offers it you ; but instead of tasting it , break off part of one of the two I shall give you , unobserved , and eat that.
As soon as she thinks you have swallowed it , she will not fail to attempt transforming you into some animal , but she will not succeed ; when she sees that she will immediately turn the thing into a joke , as if what she had done was only to frighten you.
But she will conceal a mortal grief in her heart , and think she omitted something in the composition of her cake.
As for the other cake , you shall make a present of it to her and press her to eat it ; which she will not refuse to do , were it only to convince you she does not mistrust you , though she has given you so much reason to mistrust her.
When she has eaten of it , take a little water in the hollow of your hand , and throwing it in her face , say , `` Quit that form you now wear , and take that of such and such an animal"
as you think fit ; which done , come to me with the animal , and I will tell you what you shall do afterwards.
' person_3 thanked person_2 in the most expressive terms , and took his leave of him and returned to the palace.
Upon his arrival , he understood that the queen waited for him with great impatience in the garden.
He went to her , and she no sooner perceived him , than she came in great haste to meet him.
` My dear person_1 ! ' said she , ` it seems ages since I have been separated from you.
If you had stayed ever so little longer , I was preparing to come and fetch you.
' ` Madam , ' replied person_3 , ` I can assure your majesty I was no less impatient to rejoin you ; but I could not refuse to stay a little longer with an uncle that loves me , and had not seen me for so long a time.
He would have kept me still longer , but I tore myself away from him , to come where love calls me.
Of all he prepared for me , I have only brought away this cake , which I desire your majesty to accept.
' person_3 had wrapped up one of the two cakes in a handkerchief very neatly , took it out , and presented it to the queen , saying , ` I beg your majesty to accept it.
' ` I do accept it with all my heart , ' replied the queen , ` and will eat it with pleasure for your and your good uncle 's sake ; but before I taste it , I desire you for my sake to eat a piece of this , which I have made for you during your absence.
' ` Fair queen , ' answered person_3 , receiving it with great respect , I can not sufficiently acknowledge the favor you do me.
' person_3 then artfully substituted in the place of the queen 's cake the other which old person_2 had given him , and having broken off a piece , he put it in his mouth , and cried , while he was eating , ` Ah ! queen , I never tasted anything so charming in my life.
' Being near a cascade , as the sorceress saw him swallow one bit of the cake , and ready to eat another , she took a little water in the palm of her hand , throwing it in the king 's face , said , ` Wretch ! quit that form of a man , and take that of a vile horse , blind and lame.
' These words not having the desired effect , the sorceress was strangely surprised to find person_3 still in the same form , and that he only started for fear.
Her cheeks reddened ; and as she saw that she had missed her aim , ` Dear person_1 , ' cried she , ` this is nothing ; recover yourself.
I did not intend you any harm ; I only did it to see what you would say.
' ` Powerful queen , ' replied person_3 , ` persuaded as I am that what your majesty did was only to divert yourself , yet I could not help being surprised.
But , madam , ' continued he , ` let us drop this , and since I have eaten your cake , would you do me the favor to taste mine ? ' person_4 , who could not better justify herself than by showing this mark of confidence in the person_3 of person_10 , broke off a piece of his cake , and ate it.
She had no sooner swallowed it than she appeared much troubled , and remained as it were motionless.
person_3 lost no time , but took water out of the same basin , and throwing it in her face , cried , ` Abominable sorceress ! quit that form of a woman , and be turned instantly into a mare.
' The same instant person_4 was transformed into a very beautiful mare ; and her confusion was so great to find herself in that condition , that she shed tears in great abundance , which perhaps no mare before had ever been known to do.
She bowed her head to the feet of person_3 , thinking to move him to compassion ; but though he could have been so moved , it was absolutely out of his power to repair the mischief he had done.
He led her into the stable belonging to the palace , and put her into the hands of a groom , to bridle and saddle ; but of all the bridles which the groom tried upon her , not one would fit her.
This made him cause two horses to be saddled , one for the groom , and the other for himself ; and the groom led the mare after him to old person_2 's.
person_2 , seeing at a distance person_3 coming with the mare , doubted not but he had done what he advised him.
` Hateful sorceress ! ' said he immediately to himself in a transport of joy , ` Heaven has at length punished thee as thou deservest.
' person_3 alighted at person_2 's door , and entered the shop , embracing and thanking him for all the signal services he had done him.
He related to him the whole matter , and told him that he could find no bridle fit for the mare.
person_2 , who had one for every horse , bridled the mare himself , and as soon as person_3 had sent back the groom with the two horses , he said to him , ` My lord , you have no reason to stay any longer in this city : mount the mare , and return to your kingdom.
I have but one thing more to recommend to you ; and that is , if you should ever happen to part with the mare , be sure not to give up the bridle.
' person_3 promised to remember it ; and having taken leave of the good old man , he departed.
The young person_3 of person_10 no sooner got out of the city , than he began to reflect with joy on the deliverance he had had , and that he had the sorceress in his power , who had given him so much cause to tremble.
Three days after he arrived at a great city , where , entering the suburbs , he met a venerable old man.
` Sir , ' said the old man , stopping him , ` may I presume to ask from what part of the world you come ? ' The king stopped to tell him , and as they were discoursing together , an old woman came up ; who , stopping likewise , wept and sighed bitterly at the sight of the mare.
person_3 and the old man left off discoursing , to look at the old woman , whom the king asked what cause she had to lament so much , ` Alas ! sir , ' replied she , ` it is because your mare resembles so perfectly one my son had , which I still mourn the loss of on his account.
I should think yours were the same , did I not know she was dead.
Sell her to me , I beseech you : I will give you more than she is worth , and thank you too.
' ` Good woman , ' replied person_3 , ` I am heartily sorry I can not comply with your request : my mare is not to be sold.
' ` Alas ! sir , ' continued the old woman , ` do not refuse me this favor.
My son and I will certainly die with grief if you do not grant it.
' ` Good mother , ' replied the king , ` I would grant it with all my heart , if I was disposed to part with so good a beast ; but if I were so disposed , I believe you would hardly give a thousand pieces of gold for her , and I could not sell her for less.
' ` Why should I not give so much ? ' replied the old woman : ` if that be the lowest price , you need only say you will take it , and I will fetch you the money.
' person_3 , seeing the old woman so poorly dressed , could not imagine she could find the money ; therefore to try her , he said , ` Go , fetch me the money , and the mare is yours.
' The old woman immediately unloosed a purse she had fastened to her girdle , and desiring him to alight , bade him tell over the money , and in case he found it came short of the sum demanded , she said her house was not far off , and she could quickly fetch the rest.
The surprise of person_3 , at the sight of this purse , was not small.
` Good woman , ' said he , ` do you not perceive I have been bantering you all this while ? I assure you my mare is not to be sold.
' The old man , who had been witness to all that was said , now began to speak.
` Son , ' quoth he to person_3 , ` it is necessary you should know one thing , which I find you are ignorant of ; and that is , that in this city it is not permitted to any one to tell a lie , on any account whatsoever , on pain of death.
You can not refuse taking this good woman 's money , and delivering your mare , when she gives you the sum according to the agreement ; and this you had better do without any noise , than expose yourself to what may happen.
' person_3 , sorely afflicted to find himself thus trapped by his rash offer , alighted with great regret.
The old woman stood ready to seize the bridle , and immediately unbridled the mare , and taking some water in her hand , from a stream that ran in the middle of the street , she threw it in the mare 's face , uttering these words , ` Daughter , quit that strange shape , and re-assume thine own.
' The transformation was effected in a moment , and person_3 , who swooned as soon as he saw person_4 appear , would have fallen to the ground , if the old man had not caught him.
The old woman , who was mother to person_4 , and had instructed her in all her magic secrets , had no sooner embraced her daughter , than to show her fury , she whistled.
Immediately rose a genie of gigantic form and stature.
This genie took person_3 on one shoulder , and the old woman with the magic queen on the other , and transported them in a few minutes to the palace of person_4 in the City of Enchantments.
The magic queen immediately fell upon person_3 , ` Is it thus , ungrateful wretch , ' said she , ` that thou and thy unworthy uncle repay me for all the kindnesses I have done for you ? I shall soon make you both feel what you deserve.
' She said no more , but taking water in her hand , threw it in his face with these words , ` Come out of that shape , and take that of a vile owl.
' These words were followed by the effect , and immediately she commanded one of her women to shut up the owl in a cage , and give him neither meat nor drink.
The woman took the cage , and without regarding what the queen ordered , gave him both meat and drink ; and being old person_2 's friend , she sent him word privately how the queen had treated his nephew , and of her design to destroy both him and person_3 , that he might give orders to prevent it and save himself.
person_2 knew no common measures would do with person_4 : he therefore did but whistle after a certain manner , and there immediately arose a vast giant , with four wings , who , presenting himself before him , asked what he wanted.
` Lightning , ' said person_2 to him -LRB- for so was the genie called -RRB- , ` I command you to preserve the life of person_3 , son of person_4.
Go to the palace of the magic queen , and transport immediately to the capital of person_10 the compassionate woman who has the cage in custody , so that she may inform person_4 of the danger the king her son is in , and the occasion he has for her assistance.
Take care not to frighten her when you come before her and tell her from me what she ought to do.
' Lightning immediately disappeared , and got in an instant to the palace of the magic queen.
He instructed the woman , lifted her up into the air , and transported her to the capital of person_10 , where he placed her on the terrace near the apartment where person_4 was.
She went downstairs to the apartment , and she there found person_4 and person_4 Farasche her mother lamenting their misfortunes.
She made them a profound obeisance and they soon understood the great need that person_3 was in of their assistance.
person_4 was so overjoyed at the news , that rising from her seat , she went and embraced the good woman , telling her how much she was obliged to her for the service she had done.
Then immediately going out , she commanded the trumpets to sound , and the drums to beat , to acquaint the city that the person_3 of person_10 would suddenly return safe to his kingdom.
She then went again , and found person_3 her brother , whom person_4 Farasche had caused to come speedily thither by a certain fumigation.
` Brother , ' said she to him , ` the king your nephew , my dear son , is in the City of Enchantments , under the power of person_4.
Both you and I must go to deliver him , for there is no time to be lost.
' person_3 forthwith assembled a powerful body of his marine troops , who soon rose out of the sea.
He also called to his assistance the genies , his allies , who appeared with a much more numerous army than his own.
As soon as the two armies were joined , he put himself at the head of them , with person_4 Farasche , person_4 , and the princesses.
They then lifted themselves up into the air , and soon poured down on the palace and City of Enchantments , where the magic queen , her mother , and all the adorers of fire , were destroyed in an instant.
person_4 had ordered the woman who brought her the news of person_4 's transforming and imprisoning her son to follow her closely , and bade her go , and in the confusion , seize the cage , and bring it to her.
This order was executed as she wished , and person_4 was no sooner in possession of the cage than she opened it and took out the owl , saying , as she sprinkled a little water upon him , ` My dear son , quit that strange form , and resume thy natural one of a man.
' In a moment person_4 no more saw the hideous owl , but person_3 her son.
She immediately embraced him with an excess of joy.
She could not find in her heart to let him go ; and person_4 Farasche was obliged to force him from her in her turn.
After her , he was likewise embraced by the king his uncle and his relations.
person_4 's first care was to look out for old person_2 , to whom she had been indebted for the recovery of the person_3 of person_10.
When he was brought to her , she said , ` My obligations to you , sir , have been so great , that there is nothing in my power that I would not freely do for you , as a token of my acknowledgment.
Do but tell me in what I can serve you.
' ` Great queen , ' replied person_2 , ` if the lady whom I sent to your majesty will but consent to the marriage I offer her , and the person_3 of person_10 will give me leave to reside at his court , I will spend the remainder of my days in his service.
' Then the queen turned to the lady , who was present , and finding that she was not averse to the match proposed , she caused them to join hands , and the person_3 of person_10 and she took care of their welfare.
This marriage occasioned the person_3 of person_10 to speak thus to the queen : ` Madam , ' said he , ` I am heartily glad of this match which your majesty has just made.
There remains one more , which I desire you to think of.
' person_4 did not at first comprehend what marriage he meant ; but after a little considering , she said , ` Of yours , you mean , son ? I consent to it with all my heart.
' Then turning , and looking on her brother 's sea attendants , and the genies who were still present , ` Go , ' said she , ` and traverse both sea and land , to find out the most lovely and amiable princess , worthy of the king my son , and come and tell us.
' ` Madam , ' replied person_3 , ` it is to no purpose for them to take all that pains.
You have no doubt heard that I have already given my heart to the person_6 of person_5.
I have seen her , and do not repent of the present I then made her.
In a word , neither earth nor sea , in my opinion , can furnish a princess like her.
It is true that she treated me in a way that would have extinguished any affection less strong than mine.
But I hold her excused ; she could not treat me with less rigor , after I had had the king her father imprisoned.
But it may be the person_3 of person_5 has changed his mind ; and his daughter the princess may consent to love me when she sees her father has agreed to it.
' ` Son , ' replied person_4 , ` if only the person_6 can make you happy , it is not my design to oppose you.
The king your uncle need only have the person_3 of person_5 brought , and we shall soon see whether he be still of the same untractable temper.
' Strictly as the person_3 of person_5 had been kept during his captivity by person_3 's orders , yet he always had great respect shown him , and was become very familiar with the officers who guarded him.
person_3 caused a chafing-dish of coals to be brought , into which he threw a certain composition , uttering at the same time some mysterious words.
As soon as the smoke began to arise , the palace shook , and immediately the person_3 of person_5 , with person_3 's officers , appeared.
The person_3 of person_10 cast himself at the person_3 of person_5 's feet , and kneeling said , ` It is no longer person_3 that demands of your majesty the honor of your alliance for the person_3 of person_10 ; it is the person_3 of person_10 himself that humbly begs that boon ; and I am sure your majesty will not persist in being the cause of the death of a king who can no longer live if he does not share life with the amiable person_6.
' The person_3 of person_5 did not long suffer the person_3 of person_10 to remain at his feet.
He embraced him and obliging him to rise , said , ` I should be very sorry to have contributed in the least to the death of a monarch who is so worthy to live.
If it be true that so precious a life can not be preserved without my daughter , live , sir , ' said he , ` she is yours.
She has always been obedient to my will , and I can not think she will now oppose it.
' Speaking these words , he ordered one of his officers , whom person_3 had permitted to be about him , to go and look for the person_6 , and bring her to him immediately.
The princess had remained where the person_3 of person_10 had left her.
The officer soon perceived her , and brought her with her women.
The person_3 of person_5 embraced her , and said , ` Daughter , I have provided a husband for you ; it is the person_3 of person_10 you see there , the most accomplished monarch at present in the universe.
The preference he has given you over all other person_6es obliges us both to express our gratitude.
' ` Sir , ' replied the person_6 , ` your majesty well knows I never have presumed to disobey your will in anything ; I shall always be ready to obey you ; and I hope the person_3 of person_10 will forget my ill-treatment of him , and consider it was duty , not inclination , that forced me to it.
' The wedding was celebrated in the palace of the City of Enchantments , with the greater solemnity in that all the lovers of the magic queen , who resumed their original forms as soon as ever that queen ceased to live , came to return their thanks to the person_3 of person_10 , person_4 , and person_3.
They were all sons of kings or princes , or persons of high rank.
person_3 at length conducted the person_3 of person_5 to his dominions , and put him in possession of them.
The person_3 of person_10 returned to his capital with person_4 , person_4 Farasche , and the princesses ; and person_4 Farasche and the princesses continued there till person_3 came to reconduct them to his kingdom under the waves of the sea"
About twenty days ' sail from the coast of Persia , in the Islands of the Children of Khaledan , there lived a king who had an only son , person_1.
He was brought up with all imaginable care ; and when he came to a proper age , his father appointed him an experienced governor and able tutors.
As he grew up he learned all the knowledge which a prince ought to possess , and acquitted himself so well that he charmed all that saw him , and particularly the sultan his father.
When the prince had attained the age of fifteen years , the sultan , who loved him tenderly , and gave him every day new marks of his affection , had thoughts of giving him a still greater one , by resigning to him his throne , and he acquainted his grand vizier with his intentions.
` I fear , ' said he , ` lest my son should lose in the inactivity of youth those advantages which nature and education have given him ; therefore , since I am advanced in age , and ought to think of retirement , I have thoughts of resigning the government to him , and passing the remainder of my days in the satisfaction of seeing him reign.
I have undergone the fatigue of a crown a long while , and think it is now proper for me to retire.
' The grand vizier did not wholly dissuade the sultan from such a proceeding , but sought to modify his intentions.
` person_8 , ' replied he , ` the prince is yet but young , and it would not be , in my humble opinion , advisable to burden him with the weight of a crown so soon.
Your majesty fears , with great reason , his youth may be corrupted in indolence , but to remedy that do not you think it would be proper to marry him ? Your majesty might then admit him to your council , where he would learn by degrees the art of reigning , and so be prepared to receive your authority whenever in your discernment you shall think him qualified.
' The sultan found this advice of his prime minister highly reasonable , therefore he summoned the prince to appear before him at the same time that he dismissed the grand vizier.
The prince , who had been accustomed to see his father only at certain times , without being sent for , was a little startled at this summons ; when , therefore , he came before him , he saluted him with great respect , and stood with his eyes fixed on the ground.
The sultan perceiving his constraint , said to him in a mild way , ` Do you know , son , for what reason I have sent for you ? ' The prince modestly replied , ` God alone knows the heart ; I shall hear it from your majesty with pleasure.
' ` I sent for you , ' said the sultan , ` to inform you that I have an intention of providing a proper marriage for you ; what do you think of it ? ' person_1 heard this with great uneasiness : it so surprised him , that he paused and knew not what answer to make.
After a few moments ' silence , he replied , ` person_8 , I beseech you to pardon me if I seem surprised at the declaration you have made to me.
I did not expect such proposals to one so young as I am.
It requires time to determine on what your majesty requires of me.
' person_1 's answer extremely afflicted his father.
He was not a little grieved to see what an aversion he had to marriage , yet would not charge him with disobedience , nor exert his paternal authority.
He contented himself with telling him he would not force his inclinations , but give him time to consider the proposal.
The sultan said no more to the prince : he admitted him into his council , and gave him every reason to be satisfied.
At the end of the year he took him aside , and said to him , ` person_3 son , have you thoroughly considered what I proposed to you last year about marrying ? Will you still refuse me that pleasure I expect from your obedience , and suffer me to die without it ? ' The prince seemed less disconcerted than before , and was not long answering his father to this effect : ` person_8 , I have not neglected to consider your proposal , but after the maturest reflection find myself more confirmed in my resolution to continue as I am , so that I hope your majesty will pardon me if I presume to tell you it will be in vain to speak to me any further about marriage.
' He stopped here , and went out without staying to hear what the sultan would answer.
Any other monarch would have been very angry at such freedom in a son , and would have made him repent it , but the sultan loved him , and preferred gentle methods before he proceeded to compulsion.
He communicated this new cause of discontent to his prime minister.
' I have followed your advice , ' said he , ` but person_9 is further than ever from complying with my desires.
He delivered his resolution in such free terms that it required all my reason and moderation to keep my temper.
Tell me , I beseech you , how I shall reclaim a disposition so rebellious to my will ? ' ` person_8 , ' answered the grand vizier , ` patience brings many things about that before seemed impracticable , but it may be this affair is of a nature not likely to succeed in that way.
Your majesty would have no cause to reproach yourself if you gave the prince another year to consider the matter.
If , in this interval he returns to his duty , you will have the greater satisfaction , and if he still continues averse to your proposal when this is expired , your majesty may propose to him in full council that it is highly necessary for the good of the state that he should marry , and it is not likely he will refuse to comply before so grave an assembly , which you honor with your presence.
' The year expired , and , to the great regret of the sultan , person_1 gave not the least proof of having changed his mind.
One day , therefore , when there was a great council held , the prime vizier , the other viziers , the principal officers of the crown , and the generals of the army being present , the sultan began to speak thus to the prince : ` person_3 son , it is now a long while since I have expressed to you my earnest desire to see you married ; and I imagined you would have had more consideration for a father , who required nothing unreasonable of you , than to oppose him so long.
But after so long a resistance on your part , which has almost worn out my patience , I have thought fit to propose the same thing once more to you in the presence of my council.
I would have you consider that you ought not to have refused this , not merely to oblige a parent ; the well-being of my dominions requires it ; and the assembly here present joins with me to require it of you.
Declare yourself , then ; that , according to your answer , I may take the proper measures.
' The prince answered with so little reserve , or rather with so much warmth , that the sultan , enraged to see himself thwarted in full council , cried out , ` Unnatural son ! have you the insolence to talk thus to your father and sultan ? ' He ordered the guards to take him away , and carry him to an old tower that had been unoccupied for a long while , where he was shut up , with only a bed , a little furniture , some books , and one slave to attend him.
person_9 , thus deprived of liberty , was nevertheless pleased that he had the freedom to converse with his books , and that made him look on his imprisonment with indifference.
In the evening he bathed and said his prayers ; and after having read some chapters in the Koran , with the same tranquility of mind as if he had been in the sultan 's palace , he undressed himself and went to bed , leaving his lamp burning by him all the while he slept.
In this tower was a well , which served in the daytime for a retreat to a certain fairy , named person_0 , daughter of Damriat , king or head of a legion of genies.
It was about midnight when person_0 sprang lightly to the mouth of the well , to wander about the world after her wonted custom , where her curiosity led her.
She was surprised to see a light in person_1 's chamber , and entered , without stopping , over the slave who lay at the door.
person_1 had but half-covered his face with the bedclothes , and person_0 perceived the finest young man she had seen in all her rambles through the world.
` What crime can he have committed , ' said she to herself , ` that a man of his high rank can deserve to be treated thus severely ? ' for she had already heard his story , and could hardly believe it.
She could not forbear admiring the prince , till at length , having kissed him gently on both cheeks and in the middle of the forehead without waking him , she took her flight into the air.
As she mounted high to the middle region , she heard a great flapping of wings , which made her fly that way ; and when she approached , she knew it was a genie who made the noise , but it was one of those that are rebellious.
As for person_0 , she belonged to that class whom the great Solomon compelled to acknowledge him.
This genie , whose name was person_4 , knew person_0 , and was seized with fear , being sensible how much power she had over him by her submission to the Almighty.
He would fain have avoided her , but she was so near him that he must either fight or yield.
He therefore broke silence first.
` Brave person_0 , ' said he , in the tone of a suppliant , ` swear to me that you will not hurt me ; and I swear also on my part not to do you any harm.
' ` Cursed genie , ' replied person_0 , ` what hurt canst thou do me ? I fear thee not ; but I will grant thee this favor ; I will swear not to do thee any harm.
Tell me then , wandering spirit , whence thou comest , what thou hast seen , and what thou hast done this night.
' ` Fair lady , ' answered person_4 , ` you meet me at a good time to hear something very wonderful.
I come from the utmost limits of person_2 , which look on the last islands of this hemisphere.
But , charming person_0 , ' said person_4 , who so trembled with fear at the sight of this fairy that he could hardly speak , ` promise me at least that you will forgive me , and let me go on after I have satisfied your demands.
' ` Go on , go on , cursed spirit , ' replied person_0 ; ` go on and fear nothing.
Dost thou think I am as perfidious an elf as thyself , and capable of breaking the solemn oath I have made ? Be sure you tell nothing but what is true , or I shall clip thy wings , and treat thee as thou deservest.
' person_4 , a little heartened at the words of person_0 , said , ` person_3 dear lady , I will tell you nothing but what is strictly true , if you will but have the goodness to hear me.
The country of person_2 , from whence I come , is one of the largest and most powerful kingdoms of the earth.
The king of this country is at present Gaiour , who has an only daughter , the finest maiden that ever was seen in the world since it was a world.
Neither you nor I , nor your class nor mine , nor all our respective genies , have expressions strong enough , nor eloquence sufficient to describe this brilliant lady.
Any one that did not know the king , father of this incomparable princess would scarcely be able to imagine the great respect and kindness he shows her.
No one has ever dreamed of such care as his to keep her from every one but the man who is to marry her : and , that the retreat which he has resolved to place her in may not seem irksome to her , he has built for her seven palaces , the most extraordinary and magnificent that ever were known.
` The first palace is of rock crystal , the second of copper , the third of fine steel , the fourth of brass , the fifth of touchstone , the sixth of silver , and the seventh of massy gold.
He has furnished these palaces most sumptuously , each in a manner suited to the materials that they are built of.
He has filled the gardens with grass and flowers , intermixed with pieces of water , water - works , fountains , canals , cascades , and several great groves of trees , where the eye is lost in the prospect , and where the sun never enters , and all differently arranged.
King Gaiour , in a word , has shown that he has spared no expense.
` Upon the fame of this incomparable princess 's beauty , the most powerful neighbouring kings sent ambassadors to request her in marriage.
The King of person_2 received them all in the same obliging manner ; but as he resolved not to compel his daughter to marry without her consent , and as she did not like any of the suitors , the ambassadors were forced to return as they came : they were perfectly satisfied with the great honors and civilities they had received.
' ' `` person_8 ,"
said the princess to the king her father , `` you have an inclination to see me married , and think to oblige me by it ; but where shall I find such stately palaces and delicious gardens as I have with your majesty ? Through your good pleasure I am under no constraint , and have the same honors shown to me as are paid to yourself.
These are advantages I can not expect to find anywhere else , to whatsoever husband I should give my hand ; men love ever to be masters , and I do not care to be commanded"
` At last there came an embassy from the most rich and potent king of all.
This prince the King of person_2 recommended to his daughter as her husband , urging many powerful arguments to show how much it would be to her advantage to accept him , but she intreated her father to dispense with her accepting him for the same reasons as before , and at last lost all the respect due to the king her father : `` person_8 ,"
said she , in anger , `` talk to me no more of this or any other match , unless you would have me plunge this poniard in my bosom , to deliver myself from your importunities"
` The king , greatly enraged , said `` Daughter , you are mad , and I must treat you as such"
In a word , he had her shut up in a single apartment of one of his palaces , and allowed her only ten old women to wait upon her and keep her company , the chief of whom had been her nurse.
And in order that the kings his neighbors , who had sent embassies to him on this account , might not think any more of her , he despatched envoys to them severally , to let them know how averse his daughter was to marriage ; and as he did not doubt that she was really mad , he charged them to make known in every court that if there were any physician that would undertake to come and cure her , he should , if he succeeded , marry her for his pains.
` Fair person_0 , ' continued person_4 , ` all that I have told you is true ; and I have not failed to go every day regularly to contemplate this incomparable beauty , to whom I would be very sorry to do the least harm , notwithstanding my natural inclination to mischief.
Come and see her , I conjure you ; it would be well worth your while ; I am ready to wait on you as a guide , and you have only to command me.
I doubt not that you would think yourself obliged to me for the sight of a princess unequalled for beauty.
' Instead of answering person_4 , person_0 burst out into violent laughter , which lasted for some time ; and person_4 , not knowing what might be the occasion of it , was astonished beyond measure.
When she had laughed till she could laugh no more , she cried , ` Good , good , very good ! you would have me believe all you have told me : I thought you intended to tell me something surprising and extraordinary , and you have been talking all this while of a mad woman.
What would you say , cursed genie , if you had seen the beautiful prince that I have just come from seeing ? I am confident you would soon give up the contest , and not pretend to compare your choice with mine.
' ` Agreeable person_0 , ' replied person_4 , ` may I presume to ask you who is this prince you speak of ? ' ` Know , ' answered person_0 , ` the same thing has happened to him as to your princess.
The king his father would have married him against his will ; but , after much importunity , he frankly told him he would have nothing to do with a wife.
For this reason he is at this moment imprisoned in an old tower which I make my residence , and whence I came but just now from admiring him.
' ` I will not absolutely contradict you , ' replied person_4 ; ` but , my pretty lady , you must give me leave to be of opinion , till I have seen your prince , that no mortal upon earth can come up to the beauty of my princess.
' ` Hold thy tongue , cursed sprite , ' replied person_0.
` I tell thee once more that that can never be.
' ` I will not contend with you , ' said person_4 ; ` but the way to be convinced whether what I say is true or false is to accept the proposal I made you to go and see my princess , and after that I will go with you to your prince.
' ` There is no need I should take so much pains ' replied person_0 ; ` there is another way to satisfy us both ; and that is for you to bring your princess , and place her in my prince 's room ; by this means it will be easy for us to compare them together and determine the dispute.
' person_4 consented to what person_0 had proposed , and determined to set out immediately for person_2 upon that errand.
But person_0 told him she must first show him the tower whither he was to bring the princess.
They flew together to the tower , and when person_0 had shown it to person_4 , she cried , ` Go , fetch your princess , and do it quickly , for you shall find me here : but listen , you shall pay the wager if my prince is more beautiful than your princess , and I will pay it if your princess is more beautiful than my prince.
' person_4 left person_0 , and flew towards person_2 , whence he soon returned with incredible speed , bringing the fair princess along with him , asleep.
person_0 received him , and introduced him into the tower of person_1 , where they placed the princess still asleep.
At once there arose a great contest between the genie and the fairy about their respective beauty.
They were some time admiring and comparing them without speaking : at length person_4 broke silence , and said to person_0 , ` You see , as I have already told you , my princess is handsomer than your prince ; now , I hope , you are convinced of it.
' ` Convinced of it ! ' replied person_0 ; ` I am not convinced of it , and you must be blind if you can not see that my prince is far handsomer.
The princess is fair , I do not deny ; but if you compare them together without prejudice , you will quickly see the difference.
' ` Though I should compare them ever so often , ' said person_4 , ' I could never change my opinion.
I saw at first sight what I see now , and time will not make me see differently : however , this shall not hinder my yielding to you , charming person_0 , if you desire it.
' ` Yield to me as a favor ? I scorn it , ' said person_0 : ` I would not receive a favor at the hand of such a wicked genie ; I refer the matter to an umpire , and if you will not consent I shall win by your refusal.
' person_4 no sooner gave his consent than person_0 stamped with her foot ; the earth opened , and out came a hideous , humpbacked , squinting , and lame genie , with six horns on his head , and claws on his hands and feet.
As soon as he had come forth , and the earth had closed up , he , perceiving person_0 , cast himself at her feet , and then rising up on one knee asked her what she would please to do with him.
` Rise , Caschcasch , ' said person_0 , ` I brought you hither to determine a difference between me and person_4.
Look there , and tell me , without partiality , which is the handsomest of those two that lie asleep , the young man or the young lady.
' Caschcasch looked at the prince and princess with great attention , admiration and surprise ; and after he had considered them a good while , without being able to determine which was the handsomer , he turned to person_0 , and said , ` person_7 , I must confess I should deceive you and betray myself , if I pretended to say that one was a whit handsomer than the other : the more I examine them , the more it seems to me that each possesses , in a sovereign degree , the beauty which is betwixt them.
But if there be any difference , the best way to determine it is to awaken them one after the other , and by their conduct to decide which ought to be deemed the most beautiful.
' This proposal of Caschcasch 's pleased equally both person_0 and person_4.
person_0 then changed herself into a gnat , and leaping on the prince 's neck stung him so smartly that he awoke , and put up his hand to the place ; but person_0 skipped away , and resumed her own form , which , like those of the two genies , was invisible , the better to observe what he would do.
In drawing back his hand , the prince chanced to let it fall on that of the person_5 of person_2 , and on opening his eyes , was exceedingly surprised to perceive a lady of the greatest beauty.
He raised his head and leaned on his elbow , the better to consider her.
She was so beautiful that he could not help crying out , ` What beauty ! my heart ! my soul ! ' In saying which he kissed her with so little caution that she would certainly have been awaked by it , had she not slept sounder than ordinary , through the enchantment of person_4.
He was going to awaken her at that instant , but suddenly refrained himself.
` Is not this she , ' said he , ` that the sultan my father would have had me marry ? He was in the wrong not to let me see her sooner.
I should not have offended him by my disobedience and passionate language to him in public , and he would have spared himself the confusion which I have occasioned him.
' The prince began to repent sincerely of the fault he had committed , and was once more upon the point of waking the person_5 of person_2.
` It may be , ' said he , recollecting himself , ` that the sultan my father has a mind to surprise me with this young lady.
Who knows but he has brought her himself , and is hidden behind the curtains to make me ashamed of myself.
I will content myself with this ring , as a remembrance of her.
' He then gently drew off a fine ring which the princess had on her finger , and immediately put on one of his own in its place.
After this he fell into a more profound sleep than before through the enchantment of the genies.
As soon as person_1 was in a sound sleep , person_4 transformed himself , and went and bit the princess so rudely on the lip that she forthwith awoke , started up , and opening her eyes , was not a little surprised to see a beautiful young prince.
From surprise she proceeded to admiration , and from admiration to a transport of joy.
` What , ' cried she , ` is it you the king my father has designed me for a husband ? I am indeed most unfortunate for not knowing it before , for then I should not have made him so angry with me.
Wake then , wake ! ' So saying , she took person_1 by the arm and shook him so that he would have awaked , had not person_0 increased his sleep by enchantment.
She shook him several times , and finding he did not wake , she seized his hand , and kissing it eagerly , perceived he had a ring upon his finger which greatly resembled hers , and which she was convinced was her own , by seeing she had another on her finger instead of it.
She could not comprehend how this exchange could have been made.
Tired with her fruitless endeavors to awaken the prince , she soon fell asleep.
When person_0 saw that she could now speak without fear of awaking the princess , she cried to person_4 , ` Ah , cursed genie dost thou not now see what thy contest has come to ? Art thou not now convinced how much thy princess is inferior to my prince ? But I pardon thee thy wager.
Another time believe me when I assert anything.
' Then turning to Caschcasch , ` As for you , ' said she , ' I thank you for your trouble ; take the princess , you and person_4 , and convey her back whence he has taken her.
' person_4 and Caschcasch did as they were commanded , and person_0 retired to her well.
person_1 on waking next morning looked to see if the lady whom he had seen the night before were there.
When he found she was gone , he cried out , ` I thought indeed this was a trick the king my father designed to play me.
I am glad I was aware of it.
' Then he waked the slave , who was still asleep , and bade him come and dress him , without saying anything.
The slave brought a basin and water , and after he had washed and said his prayers , he took a book and read for some time.
After this , he called the slave , and said to him , ` Come hither , and look you , do not tell me a lie.
How came that lady hither , and who brought her ? ' ` person_3 lord , ' answered the slave with great astonishment , ` I know not what lady your highness speaks of.
' ` I speak , ' said the prince , ` of her that came , or rather , that was brought hither.
' ` person_3 lord , ' replied the slave , ` I swear I know of no such lady ; and how should she come in without my knowledge , since I lay at the door ? ' ` You are a lying rascal , ' replied the prince , ` and in the plot to vex and provoke me the more.
' So saying , he gave him a box on the ear which knocked him down ; and after having stamped upon him for some time , he at length tied the well-rope under his arms , and plunged him several times into the water , neck and heels.
I will drown thee , ' cried he , ` if thou dost not tell me speedily who this lady was , and who brought her.
' The slave , perplexed and half-dead , said within himself , ` The prince must have lost his senses through grief.
' ` person_3 lord , then , ' cried he , in a suppliant tone , ` I beseech your highness to spare my life , and I will tell you the truth.
' The prince drew the slave up , and pressed him to tell him.
As soon as he was out of the well , ` person_3 lord , ' said he trembling , ` your highness must perceive that it is impossible for me to satisfy you in my present condition ; I beg you to give me leave to go and change my clothes first.
' ` I permit you , but do it quickly , ' said the prince , ` and be sure you conceal nothing.
' The slave went out , and having locked the door upon the prince , ran to the palace just as he was.
The king was at that time in discourse with his prime vizier , to whom he had just related the grief in which he had passed the night on account of his son 's disobedience and opposition to his will.
The minister endeavored to comfort his master by telling him that the prince himself had given him good cause to be angry.
` person_8 , ' said he , ` your majesty need not repent of having treated your son after this sort.
Have but patience to let him continue a while in prison , and assure yourself his temper will abate , and he will submit to all you require.
' The grand vizier had just made an end of speaking when the slave came in and cast himself at the king 's feet.
` person_3 lord , ' said he , ' I am very sorry to be the messenger of ill news to your majesty , which I know must create you fresh affliction.
The prince is distracted , my lord ; and his treatment to me , as you may see , too plainly proves it.
' Then he proceeded to tell all the particulars of what person_1 had said to him , and the violence with which he had been treated.
The king , who did not expect to hear anything of this afflictive kind , said to the prime minister , ` This is very melancholy , very different from the hopes you gave me just now : go immediately , without loss of time , see what is the matter , and come and give me an account.
' The grand vizier obeyed instantly ; and coming into the prince 's chamber , he found him sitting on his bed in good temper , and with a book in his hand , which he was reading.
After mutual salutations , the vizier sat down by him , and said , ` person_3 lord , I wish that a slave of yours were punished for coming to frighten the king your father.
' ` What , ' replied the prince , ` could give my father alarm ? I have much greater cause to complain of that slave.
' ` person_1 , ' answered the vizier , ` God forbid that the news which he has told your father concerning you should be true ; indeed , I myself find it to be false , by the good temper I observe you in.
' ` It may be , ' replied the prince , ` that he did not make himself well understood ; but since you are come , who ought to know something of the matter , give me leave to ask you who was that lady who was here last night ? ' The grand vizier was thunderstruck at this question ; however , he recovered himself and said , ` person_3 lord , be not surprised at my astonishment at your question.
Is it possible that a lady , or any other person in the world , should penetrate by night into this place , without entering at the door and walking over the body of your slave ? I beseech you , recollect yourself , and you will find it is only a dream which has made this impression on you.
' ` I give no ear to what you say , ' said the prince , raising his voice ; ` I must know of you absolutely what is become of the lady ; and if you hesitate to obey me , I shall soon be able to force you to obey me.
' At these stern words the grand vizier began to be in greater confusion than before , and was thinking how to extricate himself.
He endeavored to pacify the prince by good words , and begged of him , in the most humble and guarded manner , to tell him if he had seen this lady.
` Yes , yes , ' answered the prince , ` I have seen her , and am very well satisfied you sent her.
She played the part you had given her admirably well , for I could not get a word out of her.
She pretended to be asleep , but I was no sooner fallen into a slumber than she arose and left me.
You know all this ; for I doubt not she has been to make her report to you.
' ` person_3 lord , ' replied the vizier , ` nothing of this has been done which you seem to reproach me with ; neither your father nor I have sent this lady you speak of ; permit me therefore to remind your highness once more that you have only seen this lady in a dream.
' ` Do you come to affront and contradict me , ' said the prince in a great rage , ` and to tell me to my face that what I have told you is a dream ? ' At the same time he took him by the beard , and loaded him with blows as long as he could stand.
The poor grand vizier endured with respectful patience all the violence of his lord 's indignation , and could not help saying within himself , ` Now am I in as bad a condition as the slave , and shall think myself happy if I can , like him , escape from any further danger.
' In the midst of repeated blows he cried out for but a moment 's audience , which the prince , after he had nearly tired himself with beating him , consented to give.
` I own , my prince , ' said the grand vizier , dissembling , ` there is something in what your highness suspects ; but you can not be ignorant of the necessity a minister is under to obey his royal master 's orders ; yet , if you will but be pleased to set me at liberty , I will go and tell him anything on your part that you shall think fit to command me.
' ` Go then , ' said the prince , ` and tell him from me that if he pleases I will marry the lady he sent me.
Do this quickly , and bring me a speedy answer.
' The grand vizier made a profound reverence , and went away , not thinking himself altogether safe till he had got out of the tower , and shut the door upon the prince.
He came and presented himself before the king , with a countenance that sufficiently showed he had been ill-used , which the king could not behold without concern.
` Well , ' said the king , ` in what condition did you find my son ? ' ` person_8 , ' answered the vizier , ` what the slave reported to your majesty is but too true.
' He then began to relate his interview with person_9 , how he flew into a passion upon his endeavoring to persuade him it was impossible that the lady he spoke of should have got in ; the ill-treatment he had received from him ; how he had been used , and by what means he made his escape.
The king , the more concerned as he loved the prince with excessive tenderness , resolved to find out the truth of this matter , and therefore proposed himself to go and see his son in the tower , accompanied by the grand vizier.
person_1 received the king his father in the tower with great respect.
The king sat down , and , after he had made his son the prince sit down by him , put several questions to him , which he answered with great good sense.
The king every now and then looked at the grand vizier , as intimating that he did not find his son had lost his wits , but rather thought he had lost his.
The king at length spoke of the lady to the prince.
` person_3 son , ' said he , ` I desire you to tell me what lady it was that came here , as I have been told.
' ` person_8 , ' answered person_9 , ` I beg of your majesty not to give me more vexation on that head , but rather to oblige me by letting me have her in marriage : this young lady has charmed me.
I am ready to receive her at your hands with the deepest gratitude.
' The king was surprised at this answer of the prince , so remote , as he thought , from the good sense he had shown before.
` person_3 son , ' said he to him , ` you fill me with the greatest astonishment imaginable by what you now say to me ; I declare to you by my crown , that is to devolve upon you after me , I know not one word of the lady you mention ; and if any such has come to you , it was altogether without my knowledge.
But how could she get into this tower without my consent ? For whatever my grand vizier told you , it was only to appease you : it must therefore be a mere dream ; and I beg of you not to believe otherwise , but to recover your senses.
' ` person_8 , ' replied the prince , ` I should be for ever unworthy of your majesty 's favor , if I did not give entire credit to what you are pleased to say ; but I humbly beseech you at the same time to give a patient hearing to what I shall say to you , and then to judge whether what I have the honor to tell you be a dream or not.
' Then person_1 related to the king his father after what manner he had been awakened , and the pains he took to awaken the lady without effect , and how he had made the exchange of his ring with that of the lady : showing the king the ring , he added , ` person_8 , your majesty must needs know my ring very well , you have seen it so often.
After this , I hope you will be convinced that I have not lost my senses , as you have been almost made to believe.
' The king was so perfectly convinced of the truth of what his son had been telling him , that he had not a word to say , remaining astonished for some time , and not being able to utter a syllable.
` Son , ' at length replied the king , ` after what I have just heard , and what I see by the ring on your finger , I can not doubt but that you have seen this lady.
Would I knew who she was , and I would make you happy from this moment , and I should be the happiest father in the world ! But where shall I find her , and how seek for her ? How could she get in here without my consent ? Why did she come ? These things , I must confess , are past my finding out.
' So saying , and taking the prince by the hand , ` Come then , my son , ' he said , ` let us go and be miserable together.
' The king then led his son out of the tower , and conveyed him to the palace , where he no sooner arrived than in despair he fell ill , and took to his bed ; the king shut himself up with him , and spent many a day in weeping , without attending to the affairs of his kingdom.
The prime minister , who was the only person that had admittance to him , came one day and told him that the whole court , and even the people , began to murmur at not seeing him , and that he did not administer justice every day as he was wont to do.
` I humbly beg your majesty , therefore , ' proceeded he , ` to pay them some attention ; I am aware your majesty 's company is a great comfort to the prince , but then you must not run the risk of letting all be lost.
Permit me to propose to your majesty to remove with the prince to the castle in a little island near the port , where you may give audience to your subjects twice a week only ; during these absences the prince will be so agreeably diverted with the beauty , prospect , and good air of the place , that he will bear them with the less uneasiness.
' The king approved this proposal ; and after the castle , where he had not resided for some time , had been furnished , he removed thither with the prince ; and , excepting the times that he gave audience , as aforesaid , he never left him , but passed all his time by his son 's pillow , endeavoring to comfort him in sharing his grief.
Whilst matters passed thus , the two genies , person_4 and Caschcasch , had carried the person_5 of person_2 back to the palace where the king her father had shut her up.
When she awoke the next morning , and found by looking to the right and left that person_1 was not by , she cried out with a loud voice to her women.
Her nurse , who presented herself first , desired to be informed what she would please to have , and if anything disagreeable had happened to her.
` Tell me , ' said the princess , ` what is become of the young man whom I love with all my soul ? ' ` person_7 , ' replied the nurse , ` we can not understand your highness , unless you will be pleased to explain yourself.
' ` A young man , the best and most amiable , ' said the princess ` whom I could not awake ; I ask you where he is ? ' ` person_7 , ' answered the nurse , ` your highness asks these questions to jest with us.
I beseech you to rise.
' ` I am in earnest , ' said the princess , ` and I must know where this young man is.
' ` person_7 , ' insisted the nurse , ` how any man could come without our knowledge we can not imagine , for we all slept about the door of your chamber , which was locked , and I had the key in my pocket.
' At this the princess lost all patience , and catching her nurse by the hair of her head , and giving her two or three sound cuffs , she cried , ` You shall tell me where this young man is , old sorceress , or I will beat your brains out.
' The nurse struggled to get from her , and at last succeeded ; when she went immediately , with tears in her eyes , to complain to the queen her mother , who was not a little surprised to see her in this condition , and asked who had done this.
` person_7 , ' began the nurse , ` you see how the princess has treated me ; she would certainly have murdered me , if I had not had the good fortune to escape out of her hands.
' She then began to tell what had been the cause of all that violent passion in the princess.
The queen was surprised to hear it , and could not guess how she came to be so senseless as to take that for a reality which could be no other than a dream.
` Your majesty must conclude from all this , madam , ' continued the nurse , ` that the princess is out of her senses.
You will think so yourself if you go and see her.
' The queen ordered the nurse to follow her ; and they went together to the princess 's palace that very moment.
The Queen of person_2 sat down by her daughter 's bed-side , immediately upon her arrival in her apartment ; and after she had informed herself about her health , she began to ask what had made her so angry with her nurse , that she should have treated her in the manner she had done.
` Daughter , ' said she , ` this is not right ; and a great princess like you should not suffer herself to be so transported by passion.
' ` person_7 , ' replied the princess , ` I plainly perceive your majesty is come to mock me ; but I declare I will never let you rest till you consent I shall marry the young man.
You must know where he is , and therefore I beg of your majesty to let him come to me again.
' ` Daughter , ' answered the queen , ` you surprise me ; I know nothing of what you talk of.
' Then the princess lost all respect for the queen : ` person_7 , ' replied she , ` the king my father and you persecuted me about marrying , when I had no inclination ; I now have an inclination , and I will marry this young man I told you of , or I will kill myself.
' Here the queen endeavored to calm the princess by soft words.
` Daughter , ' said she , ` how could any man come to you ? ' But instead of hearing her , the princess interrupted her , and flew out into such violence as obliged the queen to leave her , and retire in great affliction to inform the king of all that had passed.
The king hearing it had a mind likewise to be satisfied in person ; and coming to his daughter 's apartment , asked her if what he had just heard was true.
` person_8 , ' replied the princess , ` let us talk no more of that ; I only beseech your majesty to grant me the favor that I may marry the young man.
He was the finest and best made youth the sun ever saw.
I entreat you , do not refuse me.
But that your majesty may not longer doubt whether I have seen this young man , whether I did not do my utmost to awake him , without succeeding , see , if you please , this ring.
' She then reached forth her hand , and showed the king a man 's ring on her finger.
The king did not know what to make of all this ; but as he had shut her up as mad , he began to think her more mad than ever : therefore , without saying anything more to her , for fear she might do violence to herself or somebody about her , he had her chained , and shut up more closely than before , allowing her only the nurse to wait on her , with a good guard at the door.
The king , exceedingly concerned at this indisposition of his daughter , sought all possible means to get her cured.
He assembled his council , and after having acquainted them with the condition she was in , ` If any of you , ' said he , ` is capable of undertaking her cure , and succeeds , I will give her to him in marriage , and make him heir to my dominions and crown after my decease.
' The desire of marrying a handsome young princess , and the hopes of one day governing so powerful a kingdom as that of person_2 , had a strange effect on an emir , already advanced in age , who was present at this council.
As he was well skilled in magic , he offered to cure the king 's daughter , and flattered himself he should succeed.
` I consent , ' said the king , ` but I forgot to tell you one thing , and that is , that if you do not succeed you shall lose your head.
It would not be reasonable that you should have so great a reward , and yet run no risk on your part ; and what I say to you , ' continued the king , ` I say to all others that shall come after you , that they may consider beforehand what they undertake.
' The emir , however , accepted the condition , and the king conducted him to where the princess was.
She covered her face as soon as she saw them come in , and cried out , ` Your majesty surprises me by bringing with you a man whom I do not know , and by whom my religion forbids me to let myself be seen.
' ` Daughter , ' replied the king , ` you need not be scandalized , it is only one of my emirs who is come to demand you in marriage.
' ` It is not , I perceive , the person that you have already given me , and whose faith is plighted by the ring I wear , ' replied the princess ; ` be not offended that I will never marry any other.
' The emir expected the princess would have said or done some extravagant thing , and was not a little disappointed when he heard her talk so calmly and rationally ; for then he understood what was really the matter.
He dared not explain himself to the king , who would not have suffered the princess to give her hand to any other than the person to whom he wished to give her with his own hand.
He therefore threw himself at his majesty 's feet , and said , ` After what I have heard and observed , sir , it will be to no purpose for me to think of curing the princess , since I have no remedies suited to her malady , for which reason I humbly submit my life to your majesty 's pleasure.
' The king , enraged at his incapacity and the trouble he had given him , caused him immediately to be beheaded.
Some days afterwards , his majesty , unwilling to have it said that he had neglected his daughter 's cure , put forth a proclamation in his capital , to the effect that if there were any physician , astrologer , or magician , who would undertake to restore the princess to her senses , he need only come , and he should be employed , on condition of losing his head if he miscarried.
He had the same published in the other principal cities and towns of his dominions , and in the courts of the princes his neighbors.
The first that presented himself was an astrologer and magician , whom the king caused to be conducted to the princess 's prison.
The astrologer drew forth out of a bag he carried under his arm an astrolabe , a small sphere , a chafing dish , several sorts of drugs for fumigations , a brass pot , with many other things , and desired he might have a fire lighted.
The princess demanded what all these preparations were for.
` person_7 , ' answered the astrologer , ` they are to exorcise the evil spirit that possesses you , to shut him up in this pot , and throw him into the sea.
' ` Foolish astrologer , ' replied the princess , ` I have no occasion for any of your preparations , but am in my perfect senses , and you alone are mad.
If your art can bring him I love to me , I shall be obliged to you ; otherwise you may go about your business , for I have nothing to do with you.
' ` person_7 , ' said the astrologer , ` if your case be so , I shall desist from all endeavors , believing that only the king your father can remedy your disaster.
' So putting up his apparatus again , he marched away , very much concerned that he had so easily undertaken to cure an imaginary malady.
Coming to give an account to the king of what he had done , he began thus boldly : ` According to what your majesty published in your proclamation , and what you were pleased to confirm to me yourself , I thought the princess was distracted , and depended on being able to recover her by the secrets I have long been acquainted with , but I soon found that your majesty alone is the physician who can cure her , by giving her in marriage the person whom she desires.
' The king was very much enraged at the astrologer , and had his head cut off upon the spot.
Not to make too long a story of it , a hundred and fifty astrologers , physicians , and magicians all underwent the same fate , and their heads were set up on poles on every gate of the city.
The person_5 of person_2 's nurse had a son whose name was person_6 , and who had been foster-brother to the princess , and brought up with her.
Their friendship was so great during their childhood , and all the time they had been together , that they treated each other as brother and sister as they grew up , even some time after their separation.
This person_6 , among other studies , had from his youth been much addicted to judicial astrology , geomancy , and the like secret arts , wherein he became exceedingly skilful.
Not content with what he had learned from masters , he traveled as soon as he was able to bear the fatigue , and there was hardly any person of note in any science or art but he sought him in the most remote cities , and kept company with him long enough to obtain all the information he desired , so great was his thirst after knowledge.
After several years ' absence in foreign parts on this account , he returned to the capital city of his native country , person_2 , where seeing so many heads on the gate by which he entered , he was exceedingly surprised ; and coming home he demanded for what reason they had been placed there , but more especially he inquired after the princess his foster-sister , whom he had not forgotten.
As he could not receive an answer to one inquiry without the other , he heard at length a general account with much sorrow , waiting till he could learn more from his mother , the princess 's nurse.
Although the nurse , mother to person_6 , was very much taken up with the princess , she no sooner heard that her dear son had returned than she found time to come out , embrace him , and converse with him a little.
Having told him , with tears in her eyes , what a sad condition the princess was in , and for what reason the king her father had shut her up , he desired to know of his mother if she could not procure him a private sight of her royal mistress , without the king 's knowing it.
After some pause , she told him she could say nothing for the present , but if he would meet her the next day at the same hour , she would give him an answer.
The nurse knowing that none could approach the princess but herself without leave of the officer who commanded the guard at the gate , addressed herself to him , who she knew had been so lately appointed that he could know nothing of what had passed at the court of person_2.
` You know , ' said she to him , ` I have brought up the princess , and you may likewise have heard that I had a daughter whom I brought up along with her.
This daughter has since been married ; yet the princess still does her the honor to love her , and would fain see her , but without anybody 's perceiving her coming in or out.
' The nurse would have gone on , but the officer cried , ` Say no more ; I will with pleasure do anything to oblige the princess ; go and fetch your daughter , or send for her about midnight , and the gate shall be open to you.
' As soon as night came , the nurse went to look for her son person_6 , and having found him , she dressed him so artificially in women 's clothes that nobody could know he was a man.
She carried him along with her , and the officer verily believing it was her daughter , admitted them together.
The nurse , before she presented person_6 , went to the princess , and said , ` person_7 , this is not a woman I have brought to you ; it is my son person_6 in disguise , newly arrived from his travels , and he having a great desire to kiss your hand , I hope your highness will admit him to that honor.
' ` What ! my brother person_6 , ' said the princess , with great joy : ` come hither , ' cried she , ` and take off that veil ; for it is not unreasonable , surely , that a brother and a sister should see each other without covering their faces.
' person_6 saluted her with profound respect , when she , without giving him time to speak , cried out , ` I am rejoiced to see you returned in good health , after so many years ' absence without sending the least account all the while of your welfare , even to your good mother.
' ` person_7 , ' replied person_6 , ` I am infinitely obliged to your highness for your goodness in rejoicing at my health : I hoped to have heard a better account of yours than what to my great affliction I am now witness of.
Nevertheless , I can not but rejoice that I am come seasonably enough to bring your highness that remedy of which you stand so much in need ; and though I should reap no other fruit of my studies and long voyage , I should think myself fully recompensed.
' Speaking these words , person_6 drew forth out of his pocket a book and other things , which he judged necessary to be used , according to the account he had had from his mother of the princess 's illness.
The princess , seeing him make all these preparations , cried out , ` What ! brother , are you then one of those that believe me mad ? Undeceive yourself and hear me.
' The princess then began to relate to person_6 all the particulars of her story , without omitting the least circumstance , even to the ring which was exchanged for hers , and which she showed him.
After the princess had done speaking , person_6 , filled with wonder and astonishment , continued for some time with his eyes fixed on the ground , without speaking a word ; but at length he lifted up his head and said , ` If it be as your highness says , which I do not in the least doubt , I do not despair of procuring you the satisfaction you desire ; but I must first entreat your highness to arm yourself with patience for some time longer , till I shall return after I have traveled over kingdoms which I have not yet visited ; and when you hear of my return , be assured that the object of your wishes is not far off.
' So saying , person_6 took leave of the princess , and set out next morning on his intended journey.
He traveled from city to city , from province to province , and from island to island , and in every place he passed through he could hear of nothing but the person_5 Badoura -LRB- which was the person_5 of person_2 's name -RRB- , and her history.
About four months afterwards , person_6 arrived at Torf , a seaport town , great and populous , where he no more heard of the person_5 Badoura , but where all the talk was of person_1 , who was ill , and whose history very much resembled hers.
person_6 was extremely delighted to hear this , and informed himself of the place where the prince was to be found.
There were two ways to it ; one by land and sea , the other by sea only , which was the shortest way.
person_6 chose the latter , and embarking on board a merchant ship , he arrived safe in sight of the capital ; but , just before it entered the port , the ship struck against a rock through the unskilfulness of the pilot , and foundered.
It went down in sight of person_1 's castle , where were at that time the king and his grand vizier.
person_6 could swim very well , and immediately on the ship 's sinking cast himself into the sea , and got safe to the shore under the castle , where he was soon relieved by the grand vizier 's order.
After he had changed his clothes and been well treated , and had recovered , he was introduced to the grand vizier , who had sent for him.
person_6 being a young man of good air and address , this minister received him very civilly ; and when he heard him give such just and fitting answers to what was asked of him , conceived a great esteem for him.
He also gradually perceived that he possessed a great deal of knowledge , and therefore said to him , ` From what I can understand , I perceive you are no common man ; you have traveled a great way : would to God you had learned any secret for curing a certain sick person , who has greatly afflicted this court for a long while ! ' person_6 replied that if he knew what malady it was , he might perhaps find a remedy for it.
Then the grand vizier related to him the whole story of person_1 from its origin , and concealed nothing ; his birth , his education , the inclination the king his father had to see him married early , his resistance and extraordinary aversion to marriage , his disobeying his father in full council , his imprisonment , his pretended extravagancies in prison , which were afterwards changed into a violent madness for a certain unknown lady , who , he pretended , had exchanged a ring with him ; though , for his part , he verily believed there was no such person in the world.
person_6 gave great attention to all the grand vizier said ; and was infinitely rejoiced to find that , by means of his shipwreck , he had so fortunately lighted on the person he was looking after.
He saw no reason to doubt that person_1 was the man , and the person_5 of person_2 the lady ; therefore , without explaining himself further to the vizier , he desired to see him , that he might be better able to judge of his illness and its cure.
` Follow me , ' said the grand vizier , ` and you will find the king with him , who has already desired that I should introduce you.
' The first thing that struck person_6 on entering the prince 's chamber was to find him upon his bed languishing , and with his eyes shut.
Although he saw him in that condition , and although the king his father was sitting by him , he could not help crying out , ` Was there ever a greater resemblance ! ' He meant to the person_5 of person_2 ; for it seems the princess and prince were much alike.
The words of person_6 excited the prince 's curiosity so far that he opened his eyes and looked at him.
person_6 , who had a ready wit , laid hold of that opportunity , and made his compliment in verse extempore : but in such a disguised manner , that neither the king nor grand vizier understood anything of the matter.
However , he represented so nicely what had happened to him with the person_5 of person_2 , that the prince had no reason to doubt that he knew her , and could give him tidings of her.
This made him so joyful , that the effects of it showed themselves in his eyes and looks.
After person_6 had finished his compliment in verse which surprised person_1 so agreeably , his highness took the liberty to make a sign to the king his father , to go from the place where he was , and let person_6 sit by him.
The king , overjoyed at this alteration , which gave him hopes of his son 's speedy recovery , quitted his place , and taking person_6 by the hand , led him to it.
Then his majesty demanded of him who he was , and whence he came.
And upon person_6 's answering that he was a subject of person_2 and came from that kingdom , the king cried out , ` Heaven grant that you may be able to cure my son of this profound melancholy , and I shall be eternally obliged to you ; all the world shall see how handsomely I will reward you.
' Having said thus , he left the prince to converse at full liberty with the stranger , whilst he went and rejoiced with the grand vizier.
person_6 leaning down to the prince , spoke low in his ear , thus : ` person_1 , ' said he , ` it is time you should cease to grieve.
The lady for whom you suffer is the person_5 Badoura , daughter of Gaiour , King of person_2.
This I can assure your highness from what she has told me of her adventure , and what I have learned of yours.
She has suffered no less on your account than you have on hers.
' Here he began to relate all that he knew of the princess 's story , from the night of their extraordinary interview.
He omitted not to acquaint him how the king had treated those who had failed in their pretensions to cure the princess of her indisposition.
` But your highness is the only person , ' added he , ` that can cure her effectually , and may present yourself without fear.
However , before you undertake so great a voyage , I would have you perfectly recovered , and then we will take such measures as are necessary.
Think then immediately of the recovery of your health.
' This discourse had a marvellous effect on the prince.
He found such great relief that he felt he had strength to rise , and begged leave of his father to dress himself , with such an air as gave the old king incredible pleasure.
The king could not refrain from embracing person_6 , without inquiring into the means he had used to produce this wonderful effect , and soon after went out of the prince 's chamber with the grand vizier to publish this agreeable news.
He ordered public rejoicings for several days together , and gave great largesses to his officers and the people , alms to the poor , and caused the prisoners to be set at liberty throughout his kingdom.
The joy was soon general in the capital and every corner of his dominions.
person_1 , though extremely weakened by almost continual want of sleep and long abstinence from almost all food , soon recovered his health.
When he found himself in a condition to undertake the voyage , he took person_6 aside , and said , ` Dear person_6 , it is now time to perform the promise you have made me.
I burn with impatience to see the charming princess , and if we do not set out on our journey immediately I shall soon relapse into my former condition.
One thing still troubles me , ' continued he , ` and that is the difficulty I shall meet with in getting leave of my father to go.
This would be a cruel disappointment to me , if you do not contrive a way to prevent it.
You see he scarcely ever leaves me.
' At these words the prince fell to weeping : and person_6 said , ' I foresaw this difficulty ; let not your highness be grieved at that , for I will undertake to prevent it.
person_3 principal design in this voyage was to deliver the person_5 of person_2 from her malady , and this from all the reasons of mutual affection which we have borne to each other from our birth , besides the zeal and affection I otherwise owe her ; and I should be wanting in my duty to her , if I did not do my best endeavor to effect her cure and yours , and exert my utmost skill.
This then is the means I have contrived to obtain your liberty.
You have not stirred abroad for some time , therefore let the king your father understand you have a mind to take the air , and ask his leave to go out on a hunting party for two or three days with me.
No doubt he will grant your request ; when he has done so , order two good horses to be got ready , one to mount , the other to change , and leave the rest to me.
' Next day person_1 Camaralzarnan took his opportunity.
He told the king he was desirous to take the air , and , if he pleased , would go and hunt for two or three days with person_6.
The king gave his consent , but bade him be sure not to stay out above one night , since too much exercise at first might impair his health , and a too long absence create his majesty uneasiness.
He then ordered him to choose the best horses in his stable , and himself took particular care that nothing should be wanting.
When all was ready , his majesty embraced the prince , and having recommended the care of him to person_6 , he let him go.
person_1 and person_6 were soon mounted , when , to amuse the two grooms that led the fresh horses , they made as if they would hunt , and so got as far off the city and out of the road as was possible.
When night began to approach , they alighted at a caravansera or inn , where they supped , and slept till about midnight ; then person_6 awakened the prince without awakening the grooms , and desired his highness to let him have his suit , and to take another for himself , which was brought in his baggage.
Thus equipped , they mounted the fresh horses , and after person_6 had taken one of the groom 's horses by the bridle , they set out as hard as their horses could go.
At daybreak they were in a forest , where , coming to the meeting of four roads , person_6 desired the prince to wait for him a little , and went into the forest.
He then killed the groom 's horse , and after having torn the prince 's suit , which he had put off , he besmeared it with blood and threw it into the highway.
The prince demanded his reason for what he had done.
He told his highness he was sure the king his father would no sooner find that he did not return , and come to know that he had departed without the grooms , than he would suspect something , and immediately send people in quest of them.
` They that come to this place , ' said he , ` and find these blood-stained clothes , will conclude you are devoured by wild beasts , and that I have escaped to avoid the king 's anger.
The king , persuading himself that you are dead will stop further pursuit , and we may have leisure to continue our journey without fear of being followed.
I must confess , ' continued person_6 , ` that this is a violent way of proceeding , to alarm an old father with the death of his son , whom he loves so passionately ; but his joy will be the greater when he hears you are alive and happy.
' ` Brave person_6 , ' replied the prince , ' I can not but approve such an ingenious stratagem , or sufficiently admire your conduct : I am under fresh obligations to you for it.
' The prince and person_6 , well provided with cash for their expenses , continued their journey both by land and sea , and found no other obstacle but the length of time which it necessarily took up.
They , however , arrived at length at the capital of person_2 , where person_6 , instead of going to his lodgings , carried the prince to a public inn.
They tarried there incognito for three days to rest themselves after the fatigue of the voyage ; during which time person_6 caused an astrologer 's dress to be made for the prince.
The three days being expired , the prince put on his astrologer 's habit ; and person_6 left him to go and acquaint his mother , the person_5 Badoura 's nurse , of his arrival , to the end that she might inform the person_5.
person_1 , instructed by person_6 as to what he was to do , and provided with all he wanted as an astrologer , came next morning to the gate of the king 's palace , before the guards and porters , and cried aloud , ` I am an astrologer , and am come to effect a cure on the estimable person_5 Badoura , daughter of the most high and mighty monarch Gaiour , King of person_2 , on the conditions proposed by his majesty , to marry her if I succeed , or else to lose my life for my fruitless and presumptuous attempt.
' Besides the guards and porters at the gate , this drew together a great number of people about person_1.
No physician , astrologer , nor magician had appeared for a long time , deterred by the many tragic examples of ill success that appeared before their eyes ; it was therefore thought that there were no more men of these professions in the world , or that there were no more so mad as those that had gone before them.
The prince 's good mien , noble air , and blooming youth made everybody that saw him pity him.
` What mean you , sir , ' said some that were nearest to him , ` thus to expose a life of such promising expectation to certain death ? Can not the heads you see on all the gates of this city deter you from such an undertaking ? Consider what you do : abandon this rash attempt , and be gone.
' The prince continued firm , notwithstanding all these remonstrances ; and as he saw nobody come to introduce him , he repeated the same cry with a boldness that made everybody tremble.
Then they all cried , ` Let him alone , he is resolved to die ; God have mercy upon his youth and his soul ! ' He then proceeded to cry out a third time in the same manner , when the grand vizier came in person , and introduced him to the King of person_2.
As soon as the prince came into the king 's presence , he bowed and kissed the ground.
The king , who , of all that had hitherto presumptuously exposed their lives on this occasion , had not seen one worthy to cast his eyes upon , felt real compassion for person_1 on account of the danger he was about to undergo.
But as he thought him more deserving than ordinary , he showed him more honor , and made him come and sit by him.
` Young man , ' said he , ' I can hardly believe that you , at this age , can have acquired experience enough to dare attempt the cure of my daughter.
I wish you may succeed ; and would give her to you in marriage with all my heart , with the greatest joy , more willingly than I should have done to others that have offered themselves before you ; but I must declare to you at the same time , with great concern , that if you do not succeed in your attempt , notwithstanding your noble appearance and your youth you must lose your head.
' ` person_8 , ' replied the prince , ` I am under infinite obligations to your majesty for the honor you design me , and the great goodness you show to a stranger ; but I desire your majesty to believe that I would not have come from so remote a country as I have done , the name of which perhaps may be unknown in your dominions , if I had not been certain of the cure I propose.
What would not the world say of my fickleness , if , after such great fatigues and dangers as I have undergone on this account , I should abandon the enterprise ? Even your majesty would soon lose that esteem you have conceived for me.
If I must die , sir , I shall die with the satisfaction of not having lost your esteem after I have merited it.
I beseech your majesty therefore to keep me no longer impatient to display the certainty of my art.
' Then the king commanded the officer who had the custody of the princess to introduce person_1 into her apartment : but before he would let him go , he reminded him once more that he was at liberty to renounce his design ; yet the prince paid no heed , but , with astonishing resolution and eagerness , followed the officer.
When they came to a long gallery , at the end of which was the princess 's apartment , the prince , who saw himself so near the object of the wishes which had occasioned him so many tears , pushed on , and got before the officer.
The officer , redoubling his pace , with much ado got up with him.
` Whither away so fast ? ' cried he , taking him by the arm ; ` you can not get in without me : and it would seem that you have a great desire for death thus to run to it headlong.
Not one of all those many astrologers and magicians I have introduced before made such haste as yourself to a place whither I fear you will come but too soon.
' ` Friend , ' replied the person_1 , looking earnestly at the officer , and continuing his pace , ` this was because none of the astrologers you speak of were so sure of their art as I am of mine : they were certain , indeed , that they would die if they did not succeed , but they had no certainty of their success.
On this account they had reason to tremble on approaching the place whither I go , and where I am sure to find my happiness.
' He had just spoken these words as he was at the door.
The officer opened it , and introduced him into a great hall , whence was an entrance into the princess 's chamber , divided from it only by a piece of tapestry.
person_1 stopt before he entered , speaking softly to the officer for fear of being heard in the princess 's chamber.
` To convince you , ' said he , ` that there is neither presumption , nor whim , nor youthful conceit in my undertaking , I leave it to your own desire whether I should cure the princess in your presence , or where we are , without going any further ? ' The officer was amazed to hear the prince talk to him with such confidence : he left off insulting him , and said seriously , ` It is no matter whether you do it here or there , provided the business is done : cure her how you will , you will get immortal honor by it , not only in this court , but over all the world.
' The prince replied , ` It will be best then to cure her without seeing her , that you may be witness of my skill : notwithstanding my impatience to see a princess of her rank , who is to be my wife , yet , out of respect to you , I will deprive myself of that pleasure for a little while.
' He was furnished with everything suitable for an astrologer to carry about him ; and taking pen , ink , and paper out of his pocket , he wrote a letter to the princess.
When the prince had finished his letter , he folded it up , and enclosed in it the princess 's ring , without letting the officer see what he did.
When he had sealed it , he gave it to him : ` There , friend , ' said he , ` carry it to your mistress ; if it does not cure her as soon as she reads it , and sees what is inclosed in it , I give you leave to tell everybody that I am the most ignorant and impudent astrologer that ever was , is , or shall be.
' The officer , entering the person_5 of person_2 's chamber , gave her the packet he received from person_1.
` person_7 , ' said he , ` the boldest astrologer that ever lived , if I am not mistaken , has arrived here , and pretends that on reading this letter and seeing what is in it you will be cured ; I wish he may prove neither a liar nor an impostor.
' The person_5 Badoura took the letter , and opened it with a great deal of indifference , but when she saw the ring , she had not patience to read it through ; she rose hastily , broke the chain that held her , ran to the door and opened it.
She knew the prince as soon as she saw him , and he knew her ; they at once embraced each other tenderly , without being able to speak for excess of joy : they looked on one another a long time , wondering how they met again after their first interview.
The princess 's nurse , who ran to the door with her , made them come into her chamber , where the person_5 Badoura gave the prince her ring , saying , ` Take it ; I can not keep it without restoring yours , which I will never part with ; neither can it be in better hands.
' The officer immediately went to tell the King of person_2 what had happened.
` person_8 , ' said he , ` all the astrologers and doctors who have hitherto pretended to cure the princess were fools in comparison with the last.
He made use neither of schemes nor spells or perfumes , or anything else , but cured her without seeing her.
' Then he told the king how he did it.
The monarch was agreeably surprised at the news , and going forthwith to the princess 's chamber embraced her : he afterwards embraced the prince , and , taking his hand , joined it to the princess 's.
` Happy stranger , ' said the king , ` whoever you are , I will keep my word , and give you my daughter to marry ; though , from what I see in you , it is impossible for me to believe that you are really what you appear to be , and would have me believe you.
' person_1 thanked the king in the most humble tones , that he might the better show his gratitude.
` As for my person , ' said he , ` I must own I am not an astrologer , as your majesty very judiciously guessed ; I only put on the habit of one , that I might succeed more easily in my ambition to be allied to the most potent monarch in the world.
I was born a prince , and the son of a king and queen ; my name is person_9 ; my father is Schahzaman , who now reigns over the islands that are well known by the name of the Islands of the Children of Khaledan.
' He then told him his history.
When the prince had done speaking , the king said to him , ` This history is so extraordinary that it deserves to be known to posterity ; I will take care it shall be ; and the original being deposited in my royal archives , I will spread copies of it abroad , that my own kingdoms and the kingdoms around me may know it.
' The marriage was solemnized the same day , and the rejoicings for it were universal all over the empire of person_2.
Nor was person_6 forgotten : the king immediately gave him an honorable post in his court , and a promise of further advancement ; and held continual feastings for several months , to show his joy"
I HAVE made many books about well-behaved people.
Now , for a change , I am going to make a story about two disagreeable people , called person_2 and person_3.
Tod.
Nobody could call person_3.
Tod `` nice"
The rabbits could not bear him ; they could smell him half a mile off.
He was of a wandering habit and he had foxey whiskers ; they never knew where he would be next.
One day he was living in a stick - house in the coppice , causing terror to the family of old person_3.
person_1 Bouncer.
Next day he moved into a pollard willow near the lake , frightening the wild ducks and the water rats.
In winter and early spring he might generally be found in an earth amongst the rocks at the top of Bull Banks , under Oatmeal Crag.
He had half a dozen houses , but he was seldom at home.
The houses were not always empty when person_3.
Tod moved OUT ; because sometimes person_2 moved IN ; -LRB- without asking leave -RRB-.
person_2 was a short bristly fat waddling person with a grin ; he grinned all over his face.
He was not nice in his habits.
He ate wasp nests and frogs and worms ; and he waddled about by moonlight , digging things up.
His clothes were very dirty ; and as he slept in the day-time , he always went to bed in his boots.
And the bed which he went to bed in , was generally person_3.
Tod 's.
Now person_2 did occasionally eat rabbit-pie ; but it was only very little young ones occasionally , when other food was really scarce.
He was friendly with old person_3.
Bouncer ; they agreed in disliking the wicked otters and person_3.
Tod ; they often talked over that painful subject.
Old person_3.
Bouncer was stricken in years.
He sat in the spring sunshine outside the burrow , in a muffler ; smoking a pipe of rabbit tobacco.
He lived with his son person_1 Bunny and his daughter-in-law Flopsy , who had a young family.
Old person_3.
Bouncer was in charge of the family that afternoon , because person_1 and Flopsy had gone out.
The little rabbit-babies were just old enough to open their blue eyes and kick.
They lay in a fluffy bed of rabbit wool and hay , in a shallow burrow , separate from the main rabbit hole.
To tell the truth -- old person_3.
Bouncer had forgotten them.
He sat in the sun , and conversed cordially with person_2 , who was passing through the wood with a sack and a little spud which he used for digging , and some mole traps.
He complained bitterly about the scarcity of pheasants ' eggs , and accused person_3.
Tod of poaching them.
And the otters had cleared off all the frogs while he was asleep in winter -- `` I have not had a good square meal for a fortnight , I am living on pig-nuts.
I shall have to turn vegetarian and eat my own tail !"
said person_2.
It was not much of a joke , but it tickled old person_3.
Bouncer ; because person_2 was so fat and stumpy and grinning.
So old person_3.
Bouncer laughed ; and pressed person_2 to come inside , to taste a slice of seed-cake and `` a glass of my daughter Flopsy 's cowslip wine"
person_2 squeezed himself into the rabbit hole with alacrity.
Then old person_3.
Bouncer smoked another pipe , and gave person_2 a cabbage leaf cigar which was so very strong that it made person_2 grin more than ever ; and the smoke filled the burrow.
Old person_3.
Bouncer coughed and laughed ; and person_2 puffed and grinned.
And person_3.
Bouncer laughed and coughed , and shut his eyes because of the cabbage smoke.
.
When Flopsy and person_1 came back -- old person_3.
Bouncer woke up.
person_2 and all the young rabbit-babies had disappeared ! person_3.
Bouncer would not confess that he had admitted anybody into the rabbit hole.
But the smell of badger was undeniable ; and there were round heavy footmarks in the sand.
He was in disgrace ; Flopsy wrung her ears , and slapped him.
person_1 Bunny set off at once after person_2.
There was not much difficulty in tracking him ; he had left his foot - mark and gone slowly up the winding footpath through the wood.
Here he had rooted up the moss and wood sorrel.
There he had dug quite a deep hole for dog darnel ; and had set a mole trap.
A little stream crossed the way.
person_1 skipped lightly over dry-foot ; the badger 's heavy steps showed plainly in the mud.
The path led to a part of the thicket where the trees had been cleared ; there were leafy oak stumps , and a sea of blue hyacinths -- but the smell that made person_1 stop , was not the smell of flowers ! person_3.
Tod 's stick house was before him and , for once , person_3.
Tod was at home.
There was not only a foxey flavor in proof of it -- there was smoke coming out of the broken pail that served as a chimney.
person_1 Bunny sat up , staring ; his whiskers twitched.
Inside the stick house somebody dropped a plate , and said something.
person_1 stamped his foot , and bolted.
He never stopped till he came to the other side of the wood.
Apparently person_2 had turned the same way.
Upon the top of the wall , there were again the marks of badger ; and some ravellings of a sack had caught on a briar.
person_1 climbed over the wall , into a meadow.
He found another mole trap newly set ; he was still upon the track of person_2.
It was getting late in the afternoon.
Other rabbits were coming out to enjoy the evening air.
One of them in a blue coat by himself , was busily hunting for dandelions.
-- `` Cousin Peter ! Peter Rabbit , Peter Rabbit !"
shouted person_1 Bunny.
The blue coated rabbit sat up with pricked ears -- `` Whatever is the matter , Cousin person_1 ? Is it a cat ? or John Stoat Ferret ?"
`` No , no , no ! He 's bagged my family -- person_2 -- in a sack -- have you seen him ?"
`` person_2 ? how many , Cousin person_1 ?"
`` Seven , Cousin Peter , and all of them twins ! Did he come this way ? Please tell me quick !"
`` Yes , yes ; not ten minutes since.
he said they were caterpillars ; I did think they were kicking rather hard , for caterpillars"
`` Which way ? which way has he gone , Cousin Peter ?"
`` He had a sack with something ` live in it ; I watched him set a mole trap.
Let me use my mind , Cousin person_1 ; tell me from the beginning"
person_1 did so.
`` My Uncle Bouncer has displayed a lamentable want of discretion for his years ;"
said Peter reflectively , `` but there are two hopeful circumstances.
Your family is alive and kicking ; and person_2 has had refreshment.
He will probably go to sleep , and keep them for breakfast"
`` Which way ?"
`` Cousin person_1 , compose yourself.
I know very well which way.
Because person_3.
Tod was at home in the stick-house he has gone to person_3.
Tod 's other house , at the top of Bull Banks.
I partly know , because he offered to leave any message at Sister Cottontail 's ; he said he would be passing"
-LRB- Cottontail had married a black rabbit , and gone to live on the hill -RRB-.
Peter hid his dandelions , and accompanied the afflicted parent , who was all of a twitter.
They crossed several fields and began to climb the hill ; the tracks of person_2 were plainly to be seen.
He seemed to have put down the sack every dozen yards , to rest.
`` He must be very puffed ; we are close behind him , by the scent.
What a nasty person !"
said Peter.
The sunshine was still warm and slanting on the hill pastures.
Half way up , Cottontail was sitting in her doorway , with four or five half - grown little rabbits playing about her ; one black and the others brown.
Cottontail had seen person_2 passing in the distance.
Asked whether her husband was at home she replied that person_2 had rested twice while she watched him.
He had nodded , and pointed to the sack , and seemed doubled up with laughing.
-- `` Come away , Peter ; he will be cooking them ; come quicker !"
said person_1 Bunny.
They climbed up and up ; -- `` He was at home ; I saw his black ears peeping out of the hole"
`` They live too near the rocks to quarrel with their neighbors.
Come on Cousin person_1 !"
When they came near the wood at the top of Bull Banks , they went cautiously.
The trees grew amongst heaped up rocks ; and there , beneath a crag -- person_3.
Tod had made one of his homes.
It was at the top of a steep bank ; the rocks and bushes overhung it.
The rabbits crept up carefully , listening and peeping.
This house was something between a cave , a prison , and a tumble - down pig-stye.
There was a strong door , which was shut and locked.
The setting sun made the window panes glow like red flame ; but the kitchen fire was not alight.
It was neatly laid with dry sticks , as the rabbits could see , when they peeped through the window.
person_1 sighed with relief.
But there were preparations upon the kitchen table which made him shudder.
There was an immense empty pie-dish of blue willow pattern , and a large carving knife and fork , and a chopper.
At the other end of the table was a partly unfolded tablecloth , a plate , a tumbler , a knife and fork , salt - cellar , mustard and a chair -- in short , preparations for one person 's supper.
No person was to be seen , and no young rabbits.
The kitchen was empty and silent ; the clock had run down.
Peter and person_1 flattened their noses against the window , and stared into the dusk.
Then they scrambled round the rocks to the other side of the house.
It was damp and smelly , and over - grown with thorns and briars.
The rabbits shivered in their shoes.
`` Oh my poor rabbit babies ! What a dreadful place ; I shall never see them again !"
sighed person_1.
They crept up to the bedroom window.
It was closed and bolted like the kitchen.
But there were signs that this window had been recently open ; the cobwebs were disturbed , and there were fresh dirty footmarks upon the window-sill.
The room inside was so dark , that at first they could make out nothing ; but they could hear a noise -- a slow deep regular snoring grunt.
And as their eyes became accustomed to the darkness , they perceived that somebody was asleep on person_3.
Tod 's bed , curled up under the blanket.
-- `` He has gone to bed in his boots ,"
whispered Peter.
person_1 , who was all of a twitter , pulled Peter off the window-sill.
person_2 's snores continued , grunty and regular from person_3.
Tod 's bed.
Nothing could be seen of the young family.
The sun had set ; an owl began to hoot in the wood.
There were many unpleasant things lying about , that had much better have been buried ; rabbit bones and skulls , and chickens ' legs and other horrors.
It was a shocking place , and very dark.
They went back to the front of the house , and tried in every way to move the bolt of the kitchen window.
They tried to push up a rusty nail between the window sashes ; but it was of no use , especially without a light.
They sat side by side outside the window , whispering and listening.
In half an hour the moon rose over the wood.
It shone full and clear and cold , upon the house amongst the rocks , and in at the kitchen window.
But alas , no little rabbit babies were to be seen ! The moonbeams twinkled on the carving knife and the pie dish , and made a path of brightness across the dirty floor.
The light showed a little door in a wall beside the kitchen fireplace -- a little iron door belonging to a brick oven , of that old-fashioned sort that used to be heated with faggots of wood.
And presently at the same moment Peter and person_1 noticed that whenever they shook the window -- the little door opposite shook in answer.
The young family were alive ; shut up in the oven ! person_1 was so excited that it was a mercy he did not awake person_2 , whose snores continued solemnly in person_3.
Tod 's bed.
But there really was not very much comfort in the discovery.
They could not open the window ; and although the young family was alive -- the little rabbits were quite incapable of letting themselves out ; they were not old enough to crawl.
After much whispering , Peter and person_1 decided to dig a tunnel.
They began to burrow a yard or two lower down the bank.
They hoped that they might be able to work between the large stones under the house ; the kitchen floor was so dirty that it was impossible to say whether it was made of earth or flags.
They dug and dug for hours.
They could not tunnel straight on account of stones ; but by the end of the night they were under the kitchen floor.
person_1 was on his back , scratching upwards.
Peter 's claws were worn down ; he was outside the tunnel , shuffling sand away.
He called out that it was morning -- sunrise ; and that the jays were making a noise down below in the woods.
person_1 Bunny came out of the dark tunnel , shaking the sand from his ears ; he cleaned his face with his paws.
Every minute the sun shone warmer on the top of the hill.
In the valley there was a sea of white mist , with golden tops of trees showing through.
Again from the fields down below in the mist there came the angry cry of a jay -- followed by the sharp yelping bark of a fox ! Then those two rabbits lost their heads completely.
They did the most foolish thing that they could have done.
They rushed into their short new tunnel , and hid themselves at the top end of it , under person_3.
Tod 's kitchen floor.
person_3.
Tod was coming up Bull Banks , and he was in the very worst of tempers.
First he had been upset by breaking the plate.
It was his own fault ; but it was a china plate , the last of the dinner service that had belonged to his grandmother , old Vixen Tod.
Then the midges had been very bad.
And he had failed to catch a hen pheasant on her nest ; and it had contained only five eggs , two of them addled.
person_3.
Tod had had an unsatisfactory night.
As usual , when out of humor , he determined to move house.
First he tried the pollard willow , but it was damp ; and the otters had left a dead fish near it.
person_3.
Tod likes nobody 's leavings but his own.
He made his way up the hill ; his temper was not improved by noticing unmistakable marks of badger.
No one else grubs up the moss so wantonly as person_2.
person_3.
Tod slapped his stick upon the earth and fumed ; he guessed where person_2 had gone to.
He was further annoyed by the jay bird which followed him persistently.
It flew from tree to tree and scolded , warning every rabbit within hearing that either a cat or a fox was coming up the plantation.
Once when it flew screaming over his head -- person_3.
Tod snapped at it , and barked.
He approached his house very carefully , with a large rusty key.
He sniffed and his whiskers bristled.
The house was locked up , but person_3.
Tod had his doubts whether it was empty.
He turned the rusty key in the lock ; the rabbits below could hear it.
person_3.
Tod opened the door cautiously and went in.
The sight that met person_3.
Tod 's eyes in person_3.
Tod 's kitchen made person_3.
Tod furious.
There was person_3.
Tod 's chair , and person_3.
Tod 's pie dish , and his knife and fork and mustard and salt cellar and his table-cloth that he had left folded up in the dresser -- all set out for supper -LRB- or breakfast -RRB- -- without doubt for that odious person_2.
There was a smell of fresh earth and dirty badger , which fortunately overpowered all smell of rabbit.
But what absorbed person_3.
Tod 's attention was a noise -- a deep slow regular snoring grunting noise , coming from his own bed.
He peeped through the hinges of the half-open bedroom door.
Then he turned and came out of the house in a hurry.
His whiskers bristled and his coat-collar stood on end with rage.
For the next twenty minutes person_3.
Tod kept creeping cautiously into the house , and retreating hurriedly out again.
By degrees he ventured further in -- right into the bedroom.
When he was outside the house , he scratched up the earth with fury.
But when he was inside -- he did not like the look of person_2 's teeth.
He was lying on his back with his mouth open , grinning from ear to ear.
He snored peacefully and regularly ; but one eye was not perfectly shut.
person_3.
Tod came in and out of the bedroom.
Twice he brought in his walking-stick , and once he brought in the coal-scuttle.
But he thought better of it , and took them away.
When he came back after removing the coal-scuttle , person_2 was lying a little more sideways ; but he seemed even sounder asleep.
He was an incurably indolent person ; he was not in the least afraid of person_3.
Tod ; he was simply too lazy and comfortable to move.
person_3.
Tod came back yet again into the bedroom with a clothes line.
He stood a minute watching person_2 and listening attentively to the snores.
They were very loud indeed , but seemed quite natural.
person_3.
Tod turned his back towards the bed , and undid the window.
It creaked ; he turned round with a jump.
person_2 , who had opened one eye -- shut it hastily.
The snores continued.
person_3.
Tod 's proceedings were peculiar , and rather uneasy , -LRB- because the bed was between the window and the door of the bedroom -RRB-.
He opened the window a little way , and pushed out the greater part of the clothes line on to the window sill.
The rest of the line , with a hook at the end , remained in his hand.
person_2 snored conscientiously.
person_3.
Tod stood and looked at him for a minute ; then he left the room again.
person_2 opened both eyes , and looked at the rope and grinned.
There was a noise outside the window.
person_2 shut his eyes in a hurry.
person_3.
Tod had gone out at the front door , and round to the back of the house.
On the way , he stumbled over the rabbit burrow.
If he had had any idea who was inside it , he would have pulled them out quickly.
His foot went through the tunnel nearly upon the top of Peter Rabbit and person_1 , but fortunately he thought that it was some more of person_2 's work.
He took up the coil of line from the sill , listened for a moment , and then tied the rope to a tree.
person_2 watched him with one eye , through the window.
He was puzzled.
person_3.
Tod fetched a large heavy pailful of water from the spring , and staggered with it through the kitchen into his bedroom.
person_2 snored industriously , with rather a snort.
person_3.
Tod put down the pail beside the bed , took up the end of rope with the hook -- hesitated , and looked at person_2.
The snores were almost apoplectic ; but the grin was not quite so big.
person_3.
Tod gingerly mounted a chair by the head of the bedstead.
His legs were dangerously near to person_2 's teeth.
He reached up and put the end of rope , with the hook , over the head of the tester bed , where the curtains ought to hang.
-LRB- person_3.
Tod 's curtains were folded up , and put away , owing to the house being unoccupied.
So was the counterpane.
person_2 was covered with a blanket only.
-RRB- person_3.
Tod standing on the unsteady chair looked down upon him attentively ; he really was a first prize sound sleeper ! It seemed as though nothing would waken him -- not even the flapping rope across the bed.
person_3.
Tod descended safely from the chair , and endeavored to get up again with the pail of water.
He intended to hang it from the hook , dangling over the head of person_2 , in order to make a sort of shower-bath , worked by a string , through the window.
But naturally being a thin-legged person -LRB- though vindictive and sandy whiskered -RRB- -- he was quite unable to lift the heavy weight to the level of the hook and rope.
He very nearly overbalanced himself.
The snores became more and more apoplectic.
One of person_2 's hind legs twitched under the blanket , but still he slept on peacefully.
person_3.
Tod and the pail descended from the chair without accident.
After considerable thought , he emptied the water into a wash-basin and jug.
The empty pail was not too heavy for him ; he slung it up wobbling over the head of person_2.
Surely there never was such a sleeper ! person_3.
Tod got up and down , down and up on the chair.
As he could not lift the whole pailful of water at once , he fetched a milk jug , and ladled quarts of water into the pail by degrees.
The pail got fuller and fuller , and swung like a pendulum.
Occasionally a drop splashed over ; but still person_2 snored regularly and never moved , -- except one eye.
At last person_3.
Tod 's preparations were complete.
The pail was full of water ; the rope was tightly strained over the top of the bed , and across the window sill to the tree outside.
`` It will make a great mess in my bedroom ; but I could never sleep in that bed again without a spring cleaning of some sort ,"
said person_3.
Tod.
person_3.
Tod took a last look at the badger and softly left the room.
He went out of the house , shutting the front door.
The rabbits heard his footsteps over the tunnel.
He ran round behind the house , intending to undo the rope in order to let fall the pailful of water upon person_2 -- `` I will wake him up with an unpleasant surprise ,"
said person_3.
Tod.
The moment he had gone , person_2 got up in a hurry ; he rolled person_3.
Tod 's dressing-gown into a bundle , put it into the bed beneath the pail of water instead of himself , and left the room also -- grinning immensely.
He went into the kitchen , lighted the fire and boiled the kettle ; for the moment he did not trouble himself to cook the baby rabbits.
When person_3.
Tod got to the tree , he found that the weight and strain had dragged the knot so tight that it was past untying.
He was obliged to gnaw it with his teeth.
He chewed and gnawed for more than twenty minutes.
At last the rope gave way with such a sudden jerk that it nearly pulled his teeth out , and quite knocked him over backwards.
Inside the house there was a great crash and splash , and the noise of a pail rolling over and over.
But no screams.
person_3.
Tod was mystified ; he sat quite still , and listened attentively.
Then he peeped in at the window.
The water was dripping from the bed , the pail had rolled into a corner.
In the middle of the bed under the blanket , was a wet flattened SOMETHING -- much dinged in , in the middle where the pail had caught it -LRB- as it were across the tummy -RRB-.
Its head was covered by the wet blanket and it was NOT SNORING ANY LONGER.
There was nothing stirring , and no sound except the drip , drop , drop drip of water trickling from the mattress.
person_3.
Tod watched it for half an hour ; his eyes glistened.
Then he cut a caper , and became so bold that he even tapped at the window ; but the bundle never moved.
Yes -- there was no doubt about it -- it had turned out even better than he had planned ; the pail had hit poor old person_2 , and killed him dead ! `` I will bury that nasty person in the hole which he has dug.
I will bring my bedding out , and dry it in the sun ,"
said person_3.
Tod.
`` I will wash the tablecloth and spread it on the grass in the sun to bleach.
And the blanket must be hung up in the wind ; and the bed must be thoroughly disinfected , and aired with a warming-pan ; and warmed with a hot-water bottle"
`` I will get soft soap , and monkey soap , and all sorts of soap ; and soda and scrubbing brushes ; and persian powder ; and carbolic to remove the smell.
I must have a disinfecting.
Perhaps I may have to burn sulphur"
He hurried round the house to get a shovel from the kitchen -- `` First I will arrange the hole -- then I will drag out that person in the blanket"
He opened the door.
person_2 was sitting at person_3.
Tod 's kitchen table , pouring out tea from person_3.
Tod 's tea-pot into person_3.
Tod 's tea-cup.
He was quite dry himself and grinning ; and he threw the cup of scalding tea all over person_3.
Tod.
Then person_3.
Tod rushed upon person_2 , and person_2 grappled with person_3.
Tod amongst the broken crockery , and there was a terrific battle all over the kitchen.
To the rabbits underneath it sounded as if the floor would give way at each crash of falling furniture.
They crept out of their tunnel , and hung about amongst the rocks and bushes , listening anxiously.
Inside the house the racket was fearful.
The rabbit babies in the oven woke up trembling ; perhaps it was fortunate they were shut up inside.
Everything was upset except the kitchen table.
And everything was broken , except the mantelpiece and the kitchen fender.
The crockery was smashed to atoms.
The chairs were broken , and the window , and the clock fell with a crash , and there were handfuls of person_3.
Tod 's sandy whiskers.
The vases fell off the mantelpiece , the canisters fell off the shelf ; the kettle fell off the hob.
person_2 put his foot in a jar of raspberry Jam.
And the boiling water out of the kettle fell upon the tail of person_3.
Tod.
When the kettle fell , person_2 , who was still grinning , happened to be uppermost ; and he rolled person_3.
Tod over and over like a log , out at the door.
Then the snarling and worrying went on outside ; and they rolled over the bank , and down hill , bumping over the rocks.
There will never be any love lost between person_2 and person_3.
Tod.
As soon as the coast was clear Peter Rabbit and person_1 Bunny came out of the bushes -- `` Now for it ! Run in , Cousin person_1 ! Run in and get them while I watch at the door"
But person_1 was frightened -- `` Oh ; oh ! they are coming back !"
`` No they are not"
`` Yes they are !"
`` What dreadful bad language ! I think they have fallen down the stone quarry"
Still person_1 hesitated , and Peter kept pushing him -- `` Be quick , it 's all right.
Shut the oven door , Cousin person_1 , so that he wo n't miss them"
Decidedly there were lively doings in person_3.
Tod 's kitchen ! At home in the rabbit hole , things had not been quite comfortable.
After quarrelling at supper , Flopsy and old person_3.
Bouncer had passed a sleepless night , and quarrelled again at breakfast.
Old person_3.
Bouncer could no longer deny that he had invited company into the rabbit hole ; but he refused to reply to the questions and reproaches of Flopsy.
The day passed heavily.
Old person_3.
Bouncer , very sulky , was huddled up in a corner , barricaded with a chair.
Flopsy had taken away his pipe and hidden the tobacco.
She had been having a complete turn out and spring - cleaning , to relieve her feelings.
She had just finished.
Old person_3.
Bouncer , behind his chair , was wondering anxiously what she would do next.
In person_3.
Tod 's kitchen , amongst the wreckage , person_1 Bunny picked his way to the oven nervously , through a thick cloud of dust.
He opened the oven door , felt inside , and found something warm and wriggling.
He lifted it out carefully , and rejoined Peter Rabbit.
`` I 've got them ! Can we get away ? Shall we hide , Cousin Peter ?"
Peter pricked his ears ; distant sounds of fighting still echoed in the wood.
Five minutes afterwards two breathless rabbits came scuttering away down Bull Banks , half carrying half dragging a sack between them , bumpetty bump over the grass.
They reached home safely and burst into the rabbit hole.
Great was old person_3.
Bouncer 's relief and Flopsy 's joy when Peter and person_1 arrived in triumph with the young family.
The rabbit - babies were rather tumbled and very hungry ; they were fed and put to bed.
They soon recovered.
A long new pipe and a fresh supply of rabbit tobacco was presented to person_3.
Bouncer.
He was rather upon his dignity ; but he accepted.
Old person_3.
Bouncer was forgiven , and they all had dinner.
Then Peter and person_1 told their story -- but they had not waited long enough to be able to tell the end of the battle between person_2 and person_3.
Tod.
The End"
person_5 Houssain would not honor the feast with his presence ; he could scarcely endure to see the princess in the arms of person_5 Ali , who , he said , did not deserve her better or love her more than himself.
He left the court , and , renouncing all right of succession to the crown , turned dervish , and put himself under the discipline of a famous sheik , who had gained a reputation for his exemplary life , and had taken up his abode , together with his disciples , whose number was great , in an agreeable solitude.
person_5 did not assist at person_5 Ali 's and the person_5ss Nouronnihar 's wedding , any more than his brother Houssain , but did not renounce the world as he had done.
He could not imagine what had become of his arrow , so he stole away from his attendants , and resolved to search for it , that he might not have anything to reproach himself with.
With this intention , he went to the place where the person_5s Houssain 's and Ali 's were gathered up , and going straight forward from thence , looked carefully on both sides of him.
He went so far , that at last he began to think his labor was in vain ; yet he could not help going forwards , till he came to some steep , craggy rocks , which would have obliged him to return , had he been ever so anxious to proceed.
They were situated in a barren country , about four leagues distant from whence he set out.
When person_5 came near these rocks , he perceived an arrow , which he picked up , looked earnestly at it , and was in the greatest astonishment to find it was the same he shot.
` Certainly , ' said he to himself , ` neither I nor any man living could shoot an arrow so far ' ; and finding it laid flat , not sticking into the ground , he judged that it had rebounded from the rock.
` There must be some mystery in this , ' said he to himself again , ` and it may be to my advantage.
Perhaps fortune , to make me amends for depriving me of what I thought the greatest happiness of my life , may have reserved a greater blessing for my comfort.
' As these rocks were full of sharp points and crevices between them , the prince , full of these thoughts , entered a cavity , and looking about , cast his eyes on an iron door , which seemed to have no lock.
He feared it was fastened ; but pushing against it , it opened , and discovered an easy descent , but no steps.
He walked down with his arrow in his hand.
At first he thought he was going into a dark place , but presently a quite different light succeeded that which he had come out of.
Coming upon a spacious square , fifty or sixty paces distant , he perceived a magnificent palace ; but he had not time to look at it , for at the same moment a lady of majestic air , and of a beauty to which the richness of her clothes and the jewels which adorned her person added nothing , advanced as far as the porch , attended by a troop of ladies , of whom it was difficult to distinguish which was the mistress.
As soon as person_5 perceived the lady , he hastened to pay his respects ; and the lady , on her part , seeing him coming , was beforehand with him.
Raising her voice , she said , ` Come near , person_5 ; you are welcome.
' It was no small surprise to the prince to hear himself named in a palace he had never heard of , though so near his father 's capital , and he could not comprehend how he should be known to a lady who was a stranger to him.
At last he returned the lady 's salutation , by throwing himself at her feet , and rising up again , said to her , ` Madam , I return you a thousand thanks for welcoming me to a place where I had reason to believe my imprudent curiosity had made me penetrate too far.
But , madam , may I , without being guilty of rudeness , presume to ask you how you know me ? and why you , who live in the same neighborhood should be so little known by me ? ' ` person_5 , ' said the lady , ` let us go into the hall ; there I will gratify your request.
' After these words , the lady led person_5 into the hall , the noble structure of which , and the gold and azure which embellished the dome , and the inestimable richness of the furniture , appeared to him so wonderful that he had never in his life beheld anything like it , and believed that nothing was to be compared to it.
` I can assure you , ' replied the lady , ` that this is but a small part of my palace , and you will say so when you have seen all the apartments.
' Then she sat down on a sofa ; and when the prince at her entreaty had seated himself , she said , ` You are surprised , you say , that I should know you , and not be known by you ; but you will no longer be surprised when I inform you who I am.
You can not be ignorant that the world is inhabited by genies as well as men : I am the daughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished of these genies , and my name is person_1 : therefore I know you , the sultan your father , the princes your brothers , and the person_5ss Nouronnihar.
I am no stranger to your love or your travels , of which I could tell you all the circumstances , since it was I myself who exposed for sale the artificial apple which you bought at Samarcand , the carpet which person_5 Houssain met with at Bisnagar , and the tube which person_5 Ali brought from Schiraz.
This is sufficient to let you know that I am not unacquainted with anything that relates to you.
The only thing I have to add is , that you seemed to me worthy of a still better fortune than that of marrying the person_5ss Nouronnihar.
I was present when you drew your arrow , and foresaw it would not go beyond person_5 Houssain 's.
I took it in the air , and made it strike against the rocks near which you found it.
It is in your power to avail yourself of this favourable opportunity.
' As the fairy person_1 pronounced these words person_5 began to consider that the person_5ss Nouronnihar could never be his , and that the fairy person_1 excelled her infinitely in beauty and agreeableness , and , so far as he could judge from the magnificence of the palace where she resided , in immense riches.
` Madam , ' replied he , ` should I , all my life , have had the happiness of being your slave , I should think myself the happiest of men.
Pardon me my boldness , and do not refuse to admit into your court a prince who is entirely devoted to you.
' ` person_5 , ' answered the fairy , ` as I have been a long time my own mistress , and am not dependent on my parents ' consent , it is not as a slave that I would admit you into my court , but as my husband , pledging your faith to me.
I am , as I said , mistress here ; and must add , that the same customs are not observed among fairies as among other ladies.
' person_5 made no answer , but was so full of gratitude that he thought he could not express it better than by coming to kiss the hem of her garment.
` Then , ' answered the fairy , ` you are my husband , and I am your wife.
But as I suppose , ' continued she , ` that you have eaten nothing to-day , a slight repast shall be served up for you while preparations are making for our wedding feast this evening , and then I will show you the apartments of my palace , and you shall judge if this hall is the smallest part of it.
' Some of the fairy 's women who came into the hall with them , and guessed her intentions , immediately went out , and returned presently with some excellent meat and wine.
When person_5 had eaten and drunk as much as he wanted , the fairy person_1 took him through all the rooms , where he saw diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and all sorts of fine jewels , intermixed with pearls , agate , jasper , porphyry , and all kinds of the most precious marbles ; not to mention the richness of the furniture , everything was in such profusion , that the prince acknowledged that there could not be anything in the world that could come up to it.
` person_5 , ' said the fairy , ` if you admire so much my palace , which is indeed very beautiful , what would you say to the palaces of the chiefs of our genies , which are much more beautiful , spacious , and magnificent ? I could also charm you with my garden ; but we will leave that till another time.
Night draws near , and it will be time for supper.
' The next hall into which the fairy led the prince , where the cloth was laid for the feast , was the only room the prince had not seen , and it was not in the least inferior to the others.
He admired the infinite number of wax candles perfumed with amber which formed an agreeable and pleasant sight.
A large sideboard was set out with all sorts of gold plate , so finely wrought that the workmanship was much more valuable than the weight of the gold.
Several beautiful women richly dressed , whose voices were ravishing , began a concert , accompanied with all kinds of the most harmonious instruments he had ever heard.
When they had sat down to table , the fairy person_1 took care to help person_5 to most delicious meats , which the prince had never heard of , but found so nice that he commended them in the highest terms , saying that they far surpassed those among men.
He found also the same excellence in the wines , which neither he nor the fairy tasted till the dessert was served up , which consisted of the choicest sweetmeats and fruits.
After the dessert , the fairy person_1 and person_5 rose from the table , which was immediately carried away , and sat on a sofa with cushions of fine silk , curiously embroidered with all sorts of large flowers , at their backs , and a great number of genie and fairies danced before them.
The days following the wedding were a continual feast , which the fairy person_1 , who could do it with the utmost ease , knew how to diversify by new dishes , new concerts , new dances , new shows , and new diversions ; which were all so extraordinary , that person_5 , if he had lived a thousand years among men , could not have imagined.
At the end of six months , person_5 , who always loved and honored the sultan his father , felt a great desire to know how he was ; and as that desire could not be satisfied without his absenting himself to go and hear it in person , he mentioned it to the fairy , and desired she would give him leave.
This discourse alarmed the fairy , and made her fear it was only an excuse to leave her.
` My queen , ' replied the prince , ` if you are offended at the leave I asked , I entreat you to forgive me , and I will make all the reparation I can.
I did not do it with any intention of displeasing you , but from a motive of respect towards my father , whom I wish to free from the affliction in which my long absence must have overwhelmed him ; indeed I have reason to think he believes me dead.
' ` person_5 , ' said she , ` I am so fully convinced that I can depend upon your sincerity , that I grant you leave to go , on condition that your absence shall not be long.
' person_5 would have thrown himself at the fairy 's feet , to show his gratitude ; but she prevented him.
` person_5 , ' said she , ` go when you please ; but first do not take it amiss if I give you some advice how you shall conduct yourself where you are going.
First , I do not think it proper for you to tell the sultan your father of our marriage , nor what I am , nor the place where you are settled.
Beg him to be satisfied with knowing that you are happy , and that you desire no more ; and let him know that the sole end of your visit is to make him easy about your fate.
' She appointed twenty horsemen , well mounted and equipped , to attend him.
When all was ready , person_5 took leave of the fairy , embraced her , and renewed his promise to return soon.
Then his horse , which was as beautiful a creature as any in the person_3 of the person_0 ' stables , was brought , and he mounted him with an extraordinary grace , which gave great pleasure to the fairy , and after he had bid her a last adieu , set out on his journey.
As it was not a great way to his father 's capital , person_5 soon arrived there.
The people , glad to see him again , received him with acclamations , and followed him in crowds to the sultan 's palace.
The sultan received and embraced him with great joy ; complaining at the same time with a fatherly tenderness , of the affliction his long absence had been to him ; which he said was the more grievous , since as fortune had decided in favor of person_5 Ali his brother , he was afraid he might have committed some act of despair.
` Sir , ' replied person_5 , ` your majesty knows that when I shot my arrow the most extraordinary thing that ever befell anybody happened to me , that in so large and level a plain it should not be possible to find my arrow.
Though thus vanquished , I lost no time in vain complaints ; but to satisfy my perplexed mind , I gave my attendants the slip , and returned back again alone to look for my arrow.
I sought all about the place where person_5 Houssain 's and person_5 Ali 's arrows were found , and where I imagined mine must have fallen ; but all my labor was in vain , until after having gone four leagues , to that part of the plain where it is bounded by rocks , I perceived an arrow.
I ran and took it up , and knew it to be the same which I had shot.
Far from thinking your majesty had done me any injustice in declaring for my brother person_5 Ali , I interpreted what had happened to me quite otherwise , and never doubted but there was a mystery in it to my advantage ; the discovery of which I ought not to neglect , and which I found out without going further from the spot.
But as to this mystery , I beg your majesty to let me remain silent , and that you will be satisfied to know from my own mouth that I am happy and contented.
This was the only motive which brought me hither ; the only favor I ask of your majesty is to give me leave to come often and pay you my respects , and inquire after your health.
' ` Son , ' answered the person_3 of the person_0 , ` I can not refuse you the leave you ask me ; but I would much rather you would resolve to stay with me.
At least tell me where I may hear of you , if you should fail to come , or when I may think your presence necessary.
' ` Sir , ' replied person_5 , ` what your majesty asks of me is part of the mystery I spoke of.
I beg of you to give me leave to remain silent on this head ; for I shall come so frequently where my duty calls , that I am afraid I shall sooner be thought troublesome than be accused of negligence in my duty.
' The person_3 of the person_0 pressed person_5 no more ; but said to him , ` Son , I penetrate no further into your secrets , but leave you at your liberty.
I can only tell you , that you could not do me a greater pleasure than to come and by your presence restore to me the joy I have not felt for a long time , and that you will always be welcome when you come.
' person_5 stayed but three days at the sultan his father 's court , and on the fourth returned to the fairy person_1 , who received him with great joy , as she did not expect him so soon.
A month after person_5 's return from paying a visit to his father , as the fairy person_1 had observed that since the time that the person_5 gave her an account of his journey and his conversation with his father , in which he asked his leave to come and see him from time to time , he had never spoken of the sultan , as if there had been no such person in the world , whereas before he was always speaking of him , she said to him one day , ` Tell me , prince , have you forgotten the sultan your father ? Do you not remember the promise you made to go and see him from time to time ? For my part , I have not forgotten what you told me at your return , and put you in mind of it.
Pay him another visit to-morrow , and after that go and see him once a month , without speaking to me , or waiting for my leave.
I readily consent.
' person_5 went the next morning with the same attendants as before , but much finer , and himself more magnificently mounted , equipped , and dressed , and was received by the sultan with the same joy and satisfaction.
For several months he constantly paid him visits , and always in a richer and more brilliant equipage.
At last some viziers , the sultan 's favorites , who judged of person_5 's grandeur and power by the figure he made , abused the liberty the sultan gave them of speaking to him , to make him jealous of his son.
They represented to him that it was but common prudence to know where the prince had retired , and how he could afford to live at such a rate , since he had no revenue or income assigned him ; that he seemed to come to court only to brave him ; and that it was to be feared he might stir up the people 's favor and dethrone him.
The person_3 of the person_0 was so far from thinking that person_5 could be capable of so wicked a design as his favorites would make him believe , that he said to them , ` You are mistaken ; my son loves me , and I am assured of his tenderness and fidelity.
Be it as it will , I do not believe my son person_2 is so wicked as you would persuade me he is ; however , I am obliged to you for your good advice , and do not doubt that it proceeds from a good intention.
' The person_3 of the person_0 said this that his favorites might not know the impression their hints had made on his mind.
He was , however , so much alarmed that he resolved to have person_5 watched , unknown to his grand vizier.
For this end he sent for a sorceress , who was introduced by a private door into his room.
` My son person_2 comes to my court every month ; but I can not learn from him where he resides , and I do not wish to force his secret out of him ; but I believe you are capable of satisfying my curiosity , without letting him , or any of my court , know anything of the matter.
You know that at present he is here with me , and is used to go away without taking leave of me , or any of my court.
Go immediately out on the road , find out where he retires , and bring me word.
' The magician left the sultan , and knowing the place where person_5 found his arrow , went thither and hid herself near the rocks , so that nobody could see her.
The next morning person_5 set out by daybreak , without taking leave either of the sultan or of any of his court , according to custom.
The magician , seeing him coming , followed him with her eyes , till all of a sudden she lost sight of him and his attendants.
The steepness of the rocks formed an insurmountable barrier to men , whether on horseback or on foot , so that the magician judged that there were but two ways ; the prince had retired either into some cavern , or into some place underground , the abode of genies or fairies.
When she thought the prince and his attendants were out of sight , she came out of the place where she had hidden herself , and went direct to the hollow where she had seen them go in.
She entered it , and proceeded to the spot where it terminated in many windings , looking carefully about on all sides.
But notwithstanding all her diligence she could perceive no opening , nor the iron gate which person_5 discovered.
For this door was to be seen by and opened to none but men , and only to men whose presence was agreeable to the fairy person_1 , and not at all to women.
The magician , who saw it was in vain for her to search any further , was obliged to be satisfied with the discovery she had made , and returned to give the sultan an account.
When she had told him what she had done , she added , ` Your majesty may easily understand , after what I have had the honor to tell you , that it will be no difficult matter to give you the satisfaction you desire concerning person_5 's conduct.
To do this , I only ask time , and that you will have patience , and give me leave to do it without inquiring what measures I intend to take.
' The sultan was very well pleased with the magician 's conduct , and said to her , ` Do as you think fit : I will wait patiently , ' and to encourage her , he made her a present of a diamond of great value , telling her it was only an earnest of the ample reward she should receive when she had done him that important service , which he left to her management.
As person_5 , after he had obtained the fairy person_1 's leave to go to the person_3 of the person_0 ' court , never failed once a month , and the magician knew the time , she went a day or two before to the foot of the rock where she had lost sight of the prince and his attendants , and waited there with a plan she had formed.
The next morning person_5 went out as usual at the iron gate with the same attendants as before , and passed by the magician , whom he knew not to be such.
Seeing her lie with her head on the rock , complaining as if she were in great pain , he pitied her , turned his horse about and went and asked her what was the matter , and what he could do to relieve her.
The artful sorceress , without lifting up her head , looked at the prince , and answered in broken words and sighs , as if she could hardly fetch her breath , that she was going to the city , but on the way thither was taken with so violent a fever that her strength failed her , and she was forced to stop and lie down , far from any habitation , and without any hope of assistance.
` Good woman , ' replied person_5 , ` you are not so far from help as you imagine.
I am ready to assist you , and to convey you where you shall not only have all possible care taken of you , but where you will find a speedy cure ; only get up , and let one of my people take you.
' At these words , the magician , who pretended illness only to know where the prince lived , did not refuse the kind offer he made her so freely , and to show her acceptance rather by action than by word , she made many affected efforts to get up , pretending that her illness prevented her.
At the same time two of the prince 's attendants alighted off their horses , helped her up , and set her behind another.
They mounted their horses again , and followed the prince , who turned back to the iron gate , which was opened by one of his retinue who rode before.
When he came into the outer court of the fairy 's palace , without dismounting , he sent to tell her he wanted to speak to her.
The fairy person_1 came with all haste , not knowing what made person_5 return so soon.
Not giving her time to ask him , he said , ` My princess , I desire you would have compassion on this good woman , ' pointing to the magician , who was taken off the horse by two of his retinue : ` I found her in the condition you see , and promised her the assistance she stands in need of.
I commend her to your care , and am persuaded that you will not abandon her.
' The fairy person_1 , who had her eyes fixed upon the pretended sick woman all the time that the prince was talking , ordered two of the women who followed her to take her from the two men that held her up , and carry her into the palace , and take as much care of her as they could.
Whilst the two women executed the fairy 's commands , she went up to person_5 , and whispering in his ear said , ` person_5 , I commend your compassion , which is worthy of you , but give me leave to tell you that I am afraid it will be but ill rewarded.
This woman is not so ill as she pretends to be ; and I am very much mistaken if she is not sent hither on purpose to cause you great trouble.
But do not be concerned , let what will be devised against you ; be persuaded that I will deliver you out of all the snares that may be laid for you.
Go and pursue your journey.
' This discourse of the fairy 's did not in the least alarm person_5.
` My princess , ' said he , ` as I do not remember I ever did , or designed to do , anybody an injury , I can not believe anybody can have a thought of doing me one ; but if they have , I shall not forbear doing good whenever I have an opportunity.
' So saying , he took leave of the fairy , and set out again for his father 's capital , where he soon arrived , and was received as usual by the sultan , who restrained himself as much as possible , to disguise the trouble arising from the suspicions suggested by his favorites.
In the meantime , the two women to whom the fairy person_1 had given her orders carried the magician into a very fine apartment , richly furnished.
First they set her down upon a sofa , with her back supported with a cushion of gold brocade , while they made a bed , the quilt of which was finely embroidered with silk , the sheets of the finest linen , and the coverlid cloth of gold.
When they had put her into bed -LRB- for the old sorceress pretended that her fever was so violent that she could not help herself in the least -RRB- , one of the women went out and soon returned again with a china cup in her hand full of a certain liquor , which she presented to the magician , while the other helped her to sit up.
` Drink this , ' said she , ` it is the water of the fountain of lions , and a sovereign remedy against all fevers whatsoever.
You will find the effect of it in less than an hour 's time.
' The magician , to dissemble the better , took it after a great deal of entreaty , as if she was very much averse to having it , but at last taking the china cup , and shaking her head , as if she did great violence to herself , swallowed the liquor.
When she had lain down again , the two women covered her up.
` Lie quiet , ' said she who brought her the china cup , ` and get a little sleep if you can ; we will leave you , and hope to find you perfectly cured when we come an hour hence.
' The magician , who came not to act a sick part long , but only to discover person_5 's retreat , and what made him leave his father 's court , being fully satisfied in what she wanted to know , would willingly have declared that the potion had had its effects then , so great was her desire to return to the sultan , and inform him of the success of her commission ; but as she had been told that the potion did not operate immediately , she was forced to await the women 's return.
The two women came again at the time they said they should , and found the magician up and dressed , and seated on the sofa ; when she saw them open the door she cried out , ` Oh , the admirable potion ! it has wrought its cure much sooner than you told me it would , and I have waited a long time with impatience , to desire you to take me to your charitable mistress to thank her for her kindness , for which I shall always be obliged to her.
Being thus cured as by a miracle , I had rather not lose time , but continue my journey.
' The two women , who were fairies as well as their mistress , after they had told the magician how glad they were that she was cured so soon , walked before her , and conducted her through several apartments into a large hall , the most richly and magnificently furnished of all the palace.
person_1 was seated in this hall , on a throne of massy gold , attended on each hand by a great number of beautiful fairies , all richly dressed.
At the sight of so much majesty , the magician was so dazzled , that after she had prostrated herself before the throne , she could not open her lips to thank the fairy , as she proposed.
However , person_1 saved her the trouble , and said to her , ` Good woman , I am glad I had the opportunity of obliging you , and to see you are able to pursue your journey.
I will not detain you , but perhaps you may not be displeased to see my palace ; follow my women , and they will show it to you.
' The old sorceress , who had not power nor courage to say a word , prostrated herself a second time , with her head on the carpet that covered the foot of the throne , and so took her leave , and was conducted by the two fairies through all the apartments which were shown to person_5 on his first arrival there.
But what surprised her most of all was , that the two fairies told her that all she saw and admired so much was a mere sketch of their mistress 's grandeur and riches , and that in the extent of her dominions she had so many palaces that they could not tell the number of them , all of different architecture , equally magnificent and superb.
They led her at last to the iron gate at which person_5 brought her in , and after she had taken her leave of them , and thanked them for their trouble , they opened it , and wished her a pleasant journey.
After the magician had gone a little way , she turned back again to observe the door and know it again , but all in vain , for , as was before observed , it was invisible to her and all other women.
Except in this , she was very well satisfied with her work , and posted away to the sultan.
When she came to the capital , she went by a great many by-ways to the private door of the palace.
The sultan being informed of her arrival , sent for her into his apartment and perceiving a melancholy look on her countenance , he thought she had not succeeded , and said to her , ` By your looks I guess that you have not made the discovery I expected from you.
' ` Sir , ' replied the magician , ` your majesty must give me leave to represent that you ought not to judge by my looks whether or no I have acquitted myself well as regards the commands you were pleased to honor me with.
The melancholy you observe proceeds from another cause than the want of success.
' Then the magician related to the person_3 of the person_0 the whole story of all that happened from beginning to end.
When the magician had ended , she said , ` What does your majesty think of these unheard-of riches of the fairy ? Perhaps you will say you rejoice at the good fortune of person_5 your son.
For my part , sir , I beg of your majesty to forgive me if I take the liberty to say that I think otherwise , and that I shudder when I consider the misfortunes which may happen to you.
And this is the cause of the melancholy which you perceived.
I would believe that person_5 , by his own good disposition , is incapable of undertaking anything against your majesty ; but who can say that the fairy , by the influence she already has over him , may not inspire him with a dangerous design of dethroning your majesty , and seizing the crown of the person_0 ? This is what your majesty ought to consider serious and of the utmost importance.
' Though the person_3 of the person_0 was very sure that person_5 's natural disposition was good , yet he could not help being uneasy at the remarks of the old sorceress , and said , ` I thank you for the pains you have taken , and your wholesome caution.
I am so aware of the great importance it is to me , that I shall take advice upon it.
' He had been consulting with his favorites , when he was told of the magician 's arrival.
He ordered her to follow him to them.
He acquainted them with what he had learned , and communicated to them also the reason he had to fear the fairy 's influence over the prince , and asked them what measures they thought most proper to prevent so great a misfortune.
One of the favorites , taking upon himself to speak for the rest , said , ` Your majesty knows who must be the author of this mischief.
In order to prevent it , now that he is in your court , and in your power , you ought not to hesitate to put him under arrest : I will not say take away his life , for that would make too much noise ; but make him a close prisoner while he lives.
' This advice all the other favorites unanimously applauded.
The magician , who thought it too violent , asked the sultan leave to speak , which being granted , she said , ` Sir , I am persuaded that the zeal of your councillors for your majesty 's interest makes them propose arresting person_5 : but they will not take it amiss if I suggest to your and their consideration , that if you arrest the prince , you must also detain his retinue.
But they are all genies.
Do they think it will be so easy to surprise , seize , and secure their persons ? Will they not disappear , by the property they possess of rendering themselves invisible , and transport themselves instantly to the fairy , and give her an account of the insult offered to her husband ? And can it be supposed she will let it go unrevenged ? But it would be better , if , by any other means which might not make so great a noise , the sultan could secure himself against any ill designs person_5 may have against him , and not involve his majesty 's honor.
If his majesty has any confidence in my advice , as genies and fairies can do things impracticable to men , he will touch person_5 's honor , and engage him , by means of the fairy , to procure certain advantages.
For example , every time your majesty takes the field you are obliged to go to a great expense , not only in pavilions and tents for yourself and army , but likewise in mules and camels , and other beasts of burden , to carry their baggage.
Might you not request him to use his interest with the fairy to procure you a tent which might be carried in a man 's hand , and which should be large enough to shelter your whole army ? ` I need say no more to your majesty.
If the prince brings such a tent , you may make a great many other demands of the same nature , so that at last he may sink under the difficulties and the impossibility of executing them , however fertile in invention the fairy who has enticed him from you by her enchantments may be ; so that in time he will be ashamed to appear , and will be forced to pass the rest of his life with his fairy , excluded from any connection with this world ; and then your majesty will have nothing to fear , and can not be reproached with so detestable an action as the shedding of a son 's blood , or confining him in a prison for life.
' When the magician had finished her speech , the sultan asked his favorites if they had anything better to propose ; and finding them all silent , determined to follow the magician 's advice , as the most reasonable and the most suited to his mild manner of government.
The next day , when the prince came into his father 's presence and had sat down by him , after a conversation on different subjects , the sultan said , ` Son , when you came and dispelled those clouds of melancholy which your long absence had brought upon me , you made the place you had chosen for your retreat a mystery to me.
I was satisfied with seeing you again , and knowing that you were content with your condition , without wishing to penetrate into your secret , which I found you did not care I should.
I know not what reason you had thus to treat a father.
I know your good fortune ; I rejoice with you , and very much approve of your conduct in marrying a fairy so worthy of your love , and so rich and powerful , as I am informed.
Powerful as I am , it was not possible for me to have procured so great a match for you.
Now that you are raised to so high a rank as to be envied by everybody but a father like me , I not only desire you to preserve the good understanding we have lived in hitherto , but to use all your credit with your fairy to obtain for me her assistance when I want it.
I therefore will make a trial this day.
` I am persuaded you could easily procure from her a pavilion that might be carried in a man 's hand , yet which would extend over my whole army ; especially when you let her know it is for me.
Though it may be a difficult thing , she will not refuse you.
All the world knows that fairies are capable of doing the most extraordinary things.
' person_5 never expected that the sultan his father would have asked a thing which , at first sight , appeared to him so difficult , not to say impossible.
Though he knew not absolutely how great the power of genies and fairies was , he doubted whether it extended so far as to furnish a tent such as his father desired.
Moreover , he had never asked anything like it of the fairy person_1 , but was satisfied with her continual kindness ; therefore he was in the greatest embarrassment what answer to make.
At last he replied , ` If , sir , I have concealed from your majesty what happened to me and what course I took after finding my arrow , the reason was that I thought it was of no great importance to you to be informed of them ; and though I know not how this mystery has been revealed to you , I can not deny that your information is correct.
I have married the fairy you speak of.
I love her , and am persuaded she loves me.
But I can say nothing as to the influence your majesty believes I have over her.
It is what I have not yet made any experiment of or thought of , and should be very glad if you would dispense with my undertaking it , and let me enjoy the happiness of loving and being beloved with all the disinterestedness I proposed to myself.
But the demand of a father is a command upon every child who , like me , thinks it his duty to obey him in everything.
And though it is with the greatest reluctance imaginable , I will not fail to ask my wife the favor your majesty desires , but will not promise to obtain it ; and if I should not have the honor to come again to pay you my respects , that shall be the sign that I have not had success : but I desire you to forgive me beforehand , and consider that you yourself have reduced me to this extremity.
' ` Son , ' replied the person_3 of the person_0 , ` I should be very sorry that what I ask of you should prevent my ever seeing you again.
Go , only ask her.
Think with yourself , that as you love her , you could refuse her nothing ; therefore , if she loves you , she will not deny your request.
' All this discourse of the person_3 of the person_0 could not persuade person_5 , who would rather he had asked anything than the risk of displeasing his dear person_1 ; and so great was his vexation , that he left the court two days sooner than usual.
When he returned , the fairy , to whom he had always before appeared with a cheerful countenance , asked him the reason of the alteration ; and finding that instead of answering her , he inquired after her health to avoid satisfying her , she said to him , ` I will answer your question when you have answered mine.
' The prince declined it a long time , protesting that nothing was the matter with him ; but the more he denied it , the more she pressed him , and said , ` I can not bear to see you in this condition : tell me what makes you so uneasy , that I may remove the cause of it , whatever it may be ; for it must be very extraordinary if it is out of my power.
' person_5 could not long withstand the fairy.
` Madam , ' said he , ` God prolong the sultan my father 's life , and bless him to the end of his days.
I left him alive , and in perfect health : therefore that is not the cause of the melancholy you perceive in me.
The sultan has imposed upon me the disagreeable task of worrying you.
You know the care I have taken , with your approbation , to conceal from him my happiness at home with you.
How he has been informed of it I can not tell.
' Here the fairy person_1 interrupted person_5 , and said , ` But I know.
Remember what I told you of the woman who made you believe she was ill , on whom you took so much compassion.
It is she who has acquainted the sultan your father with what you took so much care to hide from him.
I told you that she was no more sick than you or I , for , after the two women whom I charged to take care of her had given her the water sovereign against all fevers , which , however , she had no occasion for , she pretended that the water had cured her , and was brought to take leave of me , that she might go sooner to give an account of the success of her undertaking.
She was in so much haste that she would have gone away without seeing my palace , if I had not , by bidding my two women show it her , given her to understand that it was worth her seeing.
But go on and tell me what is the necessity your father has imposed on you which has made you feel troublesome to me , which I desire you will be persuaded you can never be.
' ` Madam , ' pursued person_5 , ` you may have observed that hitherto I have never asked you any favor , for what , after the possession of so kind a wife , can I desire more ? I know how great your power is , but I have taken care not to make trial of it.
Consider then , I beg you , that it is not me , but the sultan my father , who , indiscreetly , as I think , asks of you a pavilion large enough to shelter him , his court , and his army , from the violence of the weather , when he takes the field , and yet small enough for a man to carry in his hand.
Once more remember it is not I , but the sultan my father who asks this favor.
' ` person_5 , ' replied the fairy , smiling , ` I am sorry that so small a matter should disturb you , and make you so uneasy.
I see plainly two things have contributed towards it : one is , the law you have imposed upon yourself , to be content with loving me and being beloved by me , and to deny yourself the liberty of asking me the least favor that might try my power.
The other , I do not doubt , whatever you may say , was that you thought what your father asked of me was out of my power.
As to the first , I commend you for it , and shall love you the better , if possible ; and for the second , I must tell you that what the sultan your father asks of me is a trifle ; and upon occasion , I can do much more difficult things.
Therefore be easy , and persuaded that , far from feeling worried , I shall always take great pleasure in whatever you can desire me to do for your sake.
' Then the fairy sent for her treasurer , to whom she said ` Nourgihan ' -LRB- which was her name -RRB- , ` bring me the largest pavilion in my treasury.
' Nourgihan returned presently with a pavilion , which could not only be held but concealed in the palm of the hand when it was closed , and presented it to her mistress , who gave it to person_5 to look at.
When person_5 saw the pavilion , which the fairy called the largest in her treasury , he fancied she was joking , and his surprise appeared in his face.
person_1 burst out laughing.
` What ! person_5 , ' cried she , ` do you think I jest with you ? You will see presently that I am in earnest.
Nourgihan ' said she to her treasurer , taking the tent out of person_5 's hands , ` go and set it up , that the prince may judge whether the sultan his father will think it large enough.
' The treasurer immediately went out from the palace , and carried it to such a distance that when she had set it up one end reached to the palace.
The prince , so far from thinking it small , found it large enough to shelter two armies as numerous as that of the sultan his father ; and then said to person_1 , ` I ask my princess a thousand pardons for my incredulity : after what I have seen , I believe there is nothing impossible to you.
' ` You see , ' said the fairy , ` that the pavilion is larger than your father may have occasion for ; but you are to observe that it becomes larger or smaller , according to the army it is to cover , without being touched.
' The treasurer took down the tent again , reduced it to its first size , and brought it and put it into the prince 's hands.
He took it , and next day mounted his horse and went with the usual attendants to the sultan his father.
The sultan , who was persuaded that such a tent as he asked for was beyond all possibility , was in great surprise at the prince 's diligence.
He took the tent and admired its smallness.
But when he had set it up in the great plain , and found it large enough to shelter an army twice as large as he could bring into the field , his amazement was so great that he could not recover himself.
As he thought this might be troublesome in use , person_5 told him that its size would always be proportionate to his army.
To outward appearance the sultan expressed great obligation to the prince his son for so noble a present , desiring him to return his thanks to the fairy person_1 ; and to show what a value he set on it , he ordered it to be carefully laid up in his treasury.
But within himself he became more jealous than ever ; considering that by the fairy 's assistance the prince his son might perform things that were infinitely above his own power , notwithstanding his greatness and riches ; and , therefore , more intent upon his ruin , he went to consult the magician again , who advised him to request the prince to bring him some of the water of the fountain of lions.
In the evening , when the sultan was surrounded as usual by all his court , and the prince came to pay his respects among the rest , he said to him : ` Son , I have already expressed how much I am obliged to you for the present of the tent you have procured me , which I look upon as the most valuable thing in my treasury ; but you must do one thing more for me.
I am informed that the fairy your wife makes use of a certain water , called the water of the fountain of lions , which cures all sorts of fevers , even the most dangerous ; and as I am perfectly sure that my health is dear to you , I do not doubt that you will ask her for a bottle of that water for me , and bring it me as a sovereign remedy , which I may make use of when I have occasion.
Do me this service , and complete the duty of a good son towards a tender father.
' person_5 , who had believed that the sultan his father would have been satisfied with so singular and useful a tent as that which he had brought , and that he would not have imposed any new task upon him which might hazard the fairy 's displeasure ; was thunderstruck at this new request , notwithstanding the assurance she had given him of granting him whatever lay in her power.
After a long silence , he said , ` I beg of your majesty to be assured that there is nothing I would not undertake to prolong your life , but I wish it might not be by means of my wife.
For this reason I dare not promise to bring the water.
All I can do is to assure you I will ask her ; but it will be with as great reluctance as when I asked for the tent.
' The next morning person_5 returned to the fairy person_1 , and related to her sincerely and faithfully all that had passed at the sultan his father 's court , from the giving of the tent , which he told her he received with the utmost gratitude , to the new request he had charged him to make , and when he had done , he added : ` but , my princess , I only tell you this as a plain account of what passed between me and my father.
I leave you to your own discretion to gratify or reject this new desire.
It shall be as you please.
' ` No , no , ' replied the fairy person_1 , ` whatever advice the magician can give him -LRB- for I see that he hearkens to her -RRB- , he shall find no fault with you or me.
There is a great deal of wickedness in this demand , as you will understand by what I am going to tell you.
The fountain of lions is situated in the middle of a court of a great castle , the entrance into which is guarded by four fierce lions , two of which sleep while the other two are awake alternately.
But let not that frighten you.
I will give you means to pass by them without any danger.
' The fairy person_1 was at that time hard at work with her needle ; and as she had by her several balls of thread , she took up one , and presenting it to person_5 , said , ` First take this ball of thread ; I will tell you presently the use of it.
In the second place , you must have two horses ; one you will ride yourself , and the other you will lead , which must be loaded with a sheep cut into four quarters , and killed to-day.
In the third place , you must be provided with a bottle , which I will give you , to bring the water in.
Set out early to-morrow morning , and when you have passed the iron gate , throw before you the ball of thread , which will roll till it comes to the gates of the castle.
When it stops , as the gates will be open , you will see the four lions.
The two that are awake will , by their roaring , wake the other two.
Be not frightened , but throw each of them a quarter of the sheep , and then clap spurs to your horse , and ride to the fountain.
Fill your bottle without alighting , and then return with the same speed.
The lions will be so busy eating that they will let you pass.
' person_5 set out the next morning at the time appointed by the fairy , and followed her directions carefully.
When he arrived at the gates of the castle , he distributed the quarters of the sheep among the four lions , and passing through the midst of them with haste , got to the fountain , filled his bottle , and returned as safe and sound as he went.
When he was a little distance from the castle gates , he turned round ; and perceiving two of the lions coming after him , he drew his sabre , and prepared for defense.
But as he went forward , he saw one of them turned off the road , and showed by his head and tail that he did not come to do him any harm , but only to go before him , and that the other stayed behind to follow.
He therefore put his sword again into its scabbard.
Guarded in this manner he arrived at the capital of the person_0 ; but the lions never left him till they had conducted him to the gates of the sultan 's palace ; after which they returned the way they came , though not without frightening all that saw them , who fled or hid themselves , though they walked gently , and showed no signs of fierceness.
A great many officers came to attend the prince while he dismounted , and conducted him to the apartments of the sultan , who was at that time conversing with his favorites.
He approached the throne , laid the bottle at the sultan 's feet , kissed the rich carpet which covered the footstool , and rising , said , ` I have brought you , sir , the health-giving water which your majesty so much desired to keep in your treasury ; but at the same time wish you such health that you may never have occasion to make use of it.
' After the prince had finished speaking , the sultan placed him on his right hand , and then said , ` Son , I am very much obliged to you for this valuable present ; also for the great danger you have exposed yourself to upon my account , which I have been informed of by the magician who knows the fountain of lions ; but do me the pleasure , ' continued he , ` to tell me by what incredible power you have been preserved.
' ` Sir , ' replied person_5 , ` I have no share in the compliment your majesty is pleased to make me ; all the honor is due to the fairy my wife ; I merely followed her good advice.
' The sultan showed outwardly all the demonstrations of joy , but secretly became more and more jealous , retired into an inner apartment , and sent for the magician.
After conferring with her , the sultan next day said to the prince , in the midst of all his courtiers , ` Son , I have one thing more to ask of you ; after which , I shall expect nothing more from your obedience , nor your influence with your wife.
This request is , to bring me a man not above a foot and a half high , whose beard is thirty feet long , who carries upon his shoulders a bar of iron of five hundredweight which he uses as a quarterstaff , and who can speak.
' person_5 , who did not believe that there was such a man in the world as his father described , would gladly have excused himself ; but the sultan persisted in his demand , and told him that the fairy could do more incredible things.
Next day the prince returned to the subterranean kingdom of person_1 , to whom he told his father 's new demand , which , he said , he looked upon as more impossible than the first two ; ` for , ' added he , ` I can not imagine that there is or can be such a man in the world : either he has a mind to try whether I am silly enough to go and seek him ; or if there is such a man , he seeks my ruin.
How can he suppose that I should get hold of a man so small , armed as he describes ? What arms could I make use of to reduce him to submission ? ' ` Do not affright yourself , prince , ' replied the fairy ; ` you ran a risk in fetching the water of the fountain of lions for your father ; but there is no danger in finding this man.
It is my brother , Schaibar , who is so far from being like me , though we both had the same father , that he is of so violent a nature that nothing can prevent his giving gory marks of his resentment for a slight offence ; yet , on the other hand , he is so good as to oblige any one in whatever they desire.
He is made exactly as the sultan your father has described him ; and he has no other arms than a bar of iron five hundred pounds in weight , without which he never stirs , and which makes him respected.
I will send for him , and you shall judge of the truth of what I tell you ; and prepare not to be frightened when you see him.
' ` What ! my queen , ' replied person_5 , ` do you say Schaibar is your brother ? Let him be ever so ugly or deformed , I shall love and honor him , and consider him as my nearest relation.
' The fairy ordered a gold chafing-dish to be set with a fire in it under the porch of her palace , with a box of the same metal.
Taking some incense out of this , and throwing it into the fire , there arose a thick cloud of smoke.
Some moments after , the fairy said to person_5 , ` person_5 , here comes my brother ; do you see him ? ' The prince immediately perceived Schaibar , who was but a foot and a half high , coming gravely with his heavy bar on his shoulder ; his beard , thirty feet long , supported itself before him , and a pair of thick moustaches were tucked up to his ears , almost covering his face : his eyes were very small , like a pig 's , and sunk deep in his head , which was of an enormous size , and on which he wore a pointed cap : besides all this , he had a hump behind and before.
If person_5 had not known that Schaibar was person_1 's brother , he would not have been able to look at him without fear ; but knowing beforehand who he was , he waited for him with the fairy , and received him without the least concern.
Schaibar , as he came forward , looked at the prince with an eye that might have chilled his soul in his body , and asked person_1 who that man was.
To which she replied : ` He is my husband , brother ; his name is person_2 ; he is son to the person_3 of the person_0.
The reason why I did not invite you to my wedding was that I was unwilling to divert you from the expedition you were engaged in , and from which I heard with pleasure that you returned victorious ; on his account I have taken the liberty now to send for you.
' At these words , Schaibar , looking at person_5 with a favourable eye , which however diminished neither his fierceness nor his savage look , said , ` Is there anything , sister , in which I can serve him ? he has only to speak.
It is enough for me that he is your husband.
' ` The sultan his father , ' replied person_1 , ` has a curiosity to see you , and I desire he may be your guide to the person_3 's court.
' ` He need but lead the way ; I will follow him , ' replied Schaibar.
` Brother , ' replied person_1 , ` it is too late to go to-day , therefore stay till to-morrow morning ; and in the meantime , as it is desirable that you should know all that has passed between the person_3 of the person_0 and person_5 since our marriage , I will tell you this evening.
' Next morning , after Schaibar had been informed of all that was proper for him to know , he set out with person_5 , who was to present him to the sultan.
When they arrived at the gates of the capital , the people no sooner saw Schaibar than they ran and hid themselves in their shops and houses , and shut their doors ; while others took to their heels , and communicated their fear to all they met , who did not wait to look behind them , but ran too ; insomuch that Schaibar and person_5 , as they went along , found all the streets and squares deserted , till they came to the palace , where the porters , instead of preventing Schaibar from entering , also ran away ; so that the prince and he advanced without any obstacle to the council-hall , where the sultan was seated on his throne giving audience.
Here likewise the officers , at the approach of Schaibar , abandoned their posts.
Schaibar , carrying his head erect , went fiercely up to the throne , without waiting to be introduced by person_5 , and accosted the person_3 of the person_0 in these words : ` You have asked for me , see , here I am : what do you want with me ? ' The sultan , instead of answering , clapt his hands before his eyes , and turned away his head , to avoid the sight of so terrible an object.
Schaibar was so much provoked at this uncivil and rude reception , after the person_3 had given him the trouble to come so far , that he instantly lifted up his iron bar , and saying , ` Speak then , ' let it fall on his head , and killed him before person_5 could intercede in his behalf.
All that he could do was to prevent his killing the grand vizier , who sat not far from him on his right hand , representing to him that he had always given the sultan his father good advice.
` These are they then , ' said Schaibar , ` who gave him bad advice ; ' and as he pronounced these words , he killed all the other viziers on the right and left , flatterers and favorites of the sultan , who were person_5 's enemies.
Every time he struck , he killed some one or other , and none escaped but they who , not rendered motionless by fear , saved themselves by flight.
When this terrible execution was over , Schaibar came out of the council-hall into the midst of the court-yard with the iron bar on his shoulder , and looking at the grand vizier , who owed his life to person_5 , he said , ` I know there is a certain sorceress , who is a greater enemy of the prince my brother-in-law than all those base favorites I have chastised ; let her be brought to me at once.
' The grand vizier immediately sent for her , and as soon as she was brought , Schaibar said , knocking her down with his iron bar , ` Take the reward of thy pernicious counsel , and learn to feign illness again : ' and left her dead on the spot.
After this he said , ` This is not enough ; I will treat the whole city in the same manner , if they do not immediately acknowledge person_5 my brother-in-law for their sultan , and person_3 of the person_0.
' Then all that were present made the air ring with the repeated acclamations of ` Long life to person_3 ' ; and immediately afterwards he was proclaimed throughout the whole town Schaibar made him be clothed in the royal vestments , installed him on the throne , and after he had made all do homage and fidelity to him , went and fetched his sister person_1 , whom he brought with great pomp , and made her acknowledged person_3ess of the person_0.
As for person_5 Ali and person_5ss Nouronnihar , as they had no hand in the conspiracy against person_5 , nor knew of any such conspiracy , person_5 assigned them a considerable province , with its capital , where they spent the rest of their lives.
Afterwards he sent an officer to person_5 Houssain to acquaint him with the change , and to make him an offer of whichever province he liked best ; but that prince thought himself so happy in his solitude that he bade the officer return the person_3 his brother thanks for his kindness , assuring him of his submission ; and saying that the only favor he desired was leave to live retired in the place he had made choice of for his retreat"
I will tell you something.
I saw two roasted fowls flying ; they flew quickly and had their breasts turned to heaven and their backs to hell , and an anvil and a mill-stone swam across the Rhine prettily , slowly , and gently , and a frog sat on the ice at Whitsuntide and ate a ploughshare.
Three fellows who wanted to catch a hare , went on crutches and stilts ; one of them was deaf , the second blind , the third dumb , and the fourth could not stir a step.
Do you want to know how it was done ? First , the blind man saw the hare running across the field , the dumb one called to the lame one , and the lame one seized it by the neck.
There were certain men who wished to sail on dry land , and they set their sails in the wind , and sailed away over great fields.
Then they sailed over a high mountain , and there they were miserably drowned.
A crab was chasing a hare which was running away at full speed , and high up on the roof lay a cow which had climbed up there.
In that country the flies are as big as the goats are here.
Open the window , that the lies may fly out"
`` I looked down upon Tyrol ,"
said the Moon , `` and my beams caused the dark pines to throw long shadows upon the rocks.
I looked at the pictures of St.
Christopher carrying the Infant Jesus that are painted there upon the walls of the houses , colossal figures reaching from the ground to the roof.
St.
Florian was represented pouring water on the burning house , and the Lord hung bleeding on the great cross by the wayside.
To the present generation these are old pictures , but I saw when they were put up , and marked how one followed the other.
On the brow of the mountain yonder is perched , like a swallow 's nest , a lonely convent of nuns.
Two of the sisters stood up in the tower tolling the bell ; they were both young , and therefore their glances flew over the mountain out into the world.
A traveling coach passed by below , the postillion wound his horn , and the poor nuns looked after the carriage for a moment with a mournful glance , and a tear gleamed in the eyes of the younger one.
And the horn sounded faint and more faintly , and the convent bell drowned its expiring echoes"
The wind blew stormy and cold , the clouds flew hurriedly past ; only for a moment now and then did the Moon become visible.
He said , `` I looked down from the silent sky upon the driving clouds , and saw the great shadows chasing each other across the earth.
I looked upon a prison.
A closed carriage stood before it ; a prisoner was to be carried away.
My rays pierced through the grated window towards the wall : the prisoner was scratching a few lines upon it , as a parting token ; but he did not write words , but a melody , the outpouring of his heart.
The door was opened , and he was led forth , and fixed his eyes upon my round disc.
Clouds passed between us , as if he were not to see my face , nor I his.
He stepped into the carriage , the door was closed , the whip cracked , and the horses galloped off into the thick forest , whither my rays were not able to follow him ; but as I glanced through the grated window , my rays glided over the notes , his last farewell engraved on the prison wall -- where words fail , sounds can often speak.
My rays could only light up isolated notes , so the greater part of what was written there will ever remain dark to me.
Was it the death-hymn he wrote there ? Were these the glad notes of joy ? Did he drive away to meet death , or hasten to the embraces of his beloved ? The rays of the Moon do not read all that is written by mortals"
Many , many years ago there lived in Nara , the ancient Capital of Japan , a wise State minister , by name person_6 Fujiwara.
His wife was a noble , good , and beautiful woman called person_6ss Murasaki -LRB- Violet -RRB-.
They had been married by their respective families according to Japanese custom when very young , and had lived together happily ever since.
They had , however , one cause for great sorrow , for as the years went by no child was born to them.
This made them very unhappy , for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age , carry on the family name , and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead.
The person_6 and his lovely wife , after long consultation and much thought , determined to make a pilgrimage to the temple of person_2-no-Kwannon -LRB- Goddess of Mercy at person_2 -RRB- , for they believed , according to the beautiful tradition of their religion , that the Mother of Mercy , Kwannon , comes to answer the prayers of mortals in the form that they need the most.
Surely after all these years of prayer she would come to them in the form of a beloved child in answer to their special pilgrimage , for that was the greatest need of their two lives.
Everything else they had that this life could give them , but it was all as nothing because the cry of their hearts was unsatisfied.
So the person_6 and his wife went to the temple of Kwannon at person_2 and stayed there for a long time , both daily offering incense and praying to Kwannon , the Heavenly Mother , to grant them the desire of their whole lives.
And their prayer was answered.
A daughter was born at last to the person_6ss Murasaki , and great was the joy of her heart.
On presenting the child to her husband , they both decided to call her person_2-person_4 , or the person_6ss of person_2 , because she was the gift of the Kwannon at that place.
They both reared her with great care and tenderness , and the child grew in strength and beauty.
When the little girl was five years old her mother fell dangerously ill and all the doctors and their medicines could not save her.
A little before she breathed her last she called her daughter to her , and gently stroking her head , said : `` person_2-person_4 , do you know that your mother can not live any longer ? Though I die , you must grow up a good girl.
Do your best not to give trouble to your nurse or any other of your family.
Perhaps your father will marry again and some one will fill my place as your mother.
If so do not grieve for me , but look upon your father 's second wife as your true mother , and be obedient and filial to both her and your father.
Remember when you are grown up to be submissive to those who are your superiors , and to be kind to all those who are under you.
Do n't forget this.
I die with the hope that you will grow up a model woman"
person_2-person_4 listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke , and promised to do all that she was told.
There is a proverb which says `` As the soul is at three so it is at one hundred ,"
and so person_2 - person_4 grew up as her mother had wished , a good and obedient little person_6ss , though she was now too young to understand how great was the loss of her mother.
Not long after the death of his first wife , person_6 married again , a lady of noble birth named person_6ss Terute.
Very different in character , alas ! to the good and wise person_6ss Murasaki , this woman had a cruel , bad heart.
She did not love her step-daughter at all , and was often very unkind to the little motherless girl , saving to herself : `` This is not my child ! this is not my child !"
But person_2-person_4 bore every unkindness with patience , and even waited upon her step-mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble , just as she had been trained by her own good mother , so that the Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her.
The little person_6ss was very diligent , and her favorite studies were music and poetry.
She would spend several hours practicing every day , and her father had the most proficient of masters he could find to teach her the koto -LRB- Japanese harp -RRB- , the art of writing letters and verse.
When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the person_1.
It was the Festival of the Cherry Flowers , and there were great festivities at the person_0.
The person_1 threw himself into the enjoyment of the season , and commanded that person_6ss person_2 should perform before him on the koto , and that her mother person_6ss Terute should accompany her on the flute.
The person_1 sat on a raised dais , before which was hung a curtain of finely-sliced bamboo and purple tassels , so that His Majesty might see all and not be seen , for no ordinary subject was allowed to looked upon his sacred face.
person_2-person_4 was a skilled musician though so young , and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent.
On this momentous occasion she played well.
But person_6ss Terute , her step - mother , who was a lazy woman and never took the trouble to practice daily , broke down in her accompaniment and had to request one of the person_0 ladies to take her place.
This was a great disgrace , and she was furiously jealous to think that she had failed where her step - daughter succeeded ; and to make matters worse the person_1 sent many beautiful gifts to the little person_6ss to reward her for playing so well at the Palace.
There was also now another reason why person_6ss Terute hated her step-daughter , for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her , and in her inmost heart she kept saying : `` If only person_2-person_4 were not here , my son would have all the love of his father"
And never having learned to control herself , she allowed this wicked thought to grow into the awful desire of taking her step-daughter 's life.
So one day she secretly ordered some poison and poisoned some sweet wine.
This poisoned wine she put into a bottle.
Into another similar bottle she poured some good wine.
It was the occasion of the Boys ' Festival on the fifth of May , and person_2-person_4 was playing with her little brother.
All his toys of warriors and heroes were spread out and she was telling him wonderful stories about each of them.
They were both enjoying themselves and laughing merrily with their attendants when his mother entered with the two bottles of wine and some delicious cakes.
`` You are both so good and happy"
said the wicked person_6ss Terute with a smile , `` that I have brought you some sweet wine as a reward -- and here are some nice cakes for my good children"
And she filled two cups from the different bottles.
person_2-person_4 , never dreaming of the dreadful part her step-mother was acting , took one of the cups of wine and gave to her little step brother the other that had been poured out for him.
The wicked woman had carefully marked the poisoned bottle , but on coming into the room she had grown nervous , and pouring out the wine hurriedly had unconsciously given the poisoned cup to her own child.
All this time she was anxiously watching the little person_6ss , but to her amazement no change whatever took place in the young girl 's face.
Suddenly the little boy screamed and threw himself on the floor , doubled up with pain.
His mother flew to him , taking the precaution to upset the two tiny jars of wine which she had brought into the room , and lifted him up.
The attendants rushed for the doctor , but nothing could save the child -- he died within the hour in his mother 's arms.
Doctors did not know much in those ancient times , and it was thought that the wine had disagreed with the boy , causing convulsions of which he died.
Thus was the wicked woman punished in losing her own child when she had tried to do away with her step-daughter ; but instead of blaming herself she began to hate person_2-person_4 more than ever in the bitterness and wretchedness of her own heart , and she eagerly watched for an opportunity to do her harm , which was , however , long in coming.
When person_2-person_4 was thirteen years of age , she had already become mentioned as a poetess of some merit.
This was an accomplishment very much cultivated by the women of old Japan and one held in high esteem.
It was the rainy season at Nara , and floods were reported every day as doing damage in the neighborhood.
The river Tatsuta , which flowed through the Imperial Palace grounds , was swollen to the top of its banks , and the roaring of the torrents of water rushing along a narrow bed so disturbed the person_1 's rest day and night , that a serious nervous disorder was the result.
An Imperial Edict was sent forth to all the Buddhist temples commanding the priests to offer up continuous prayers to Heaven to stop the noise of the flood.
But this was of no avail.
Then it was whispered in person_0 circles that the person_6ss person_2 , the daughter of person_6 Fujiwara , second minister at person_0 , was the most gifted poetess of the day , though still so young , and her masters confirmed the report.
Long ago , a beautiful and gifted maiden-poetess had moved Heaven by praying in verse , had brought down rain upon a land famished with drought -- so said the ancient biographers of the poetess Ono-no-Komachi.
If the person_6ss person_2 were to write a poem and offer it in prayer , might it not stop the noise of the rushing river and remove the cause of the Imperial illness ? What the person_0 said at last reached the ears of the person_1 himself , and he sent an order to the minister person_6 to this effect.
Great indeed was person_2-person_4 's fear and astonishment when her father sent for her and told her what was required of her.
Heavy , indeed , was the duty that was laid on her young shoulders -- that of saving the person_1 's life by the merit of her verse.
At last the day came and her poem was finished.
It was written on a leaflet of paper heavily flecked with gold-dust.
With her father and attendants and some of the person_0 officials , she proceeded to the bank of the roaring torrent and raising up her heart to Heaven , she read the poem she had composed , aloud , lifting it heavenwards in her two hands.
Strange indeed it seemed to all those standing round.
The waters ceased their roaring , and the river was quiet in direct answer to her prayer.
After this the person_1 soon recovered his health.
His Majesty was highly pleased , and sent for her to the Palace and rewarded her with the rank of Chinjo -- that of Lieutenant-General -- to distinguish her.
From that time she was called Chinjo-hime , or the Lieutenant-General person_6ss , and respected and loved by all.
There was only one person who was not pleased at person_2-person_4 's success.
That one was her stepmother.
Forever brooding over the death of her own child whom she had killed when trying to poison her step-daughter , she had the mortification of seeing her rise to power and honor , marked by Imperial favor and the admiration of the whole person_0.
Her envy and jealousy burned in her heart like fire.
Many were the lies she carried to her husband about person_2-person_4 , but all to no purpose.
He would listen to none of her tales , telling her sharply that she was quite mistaken.
At last the step-mother , seizing the opportunity of her husband 's absence , ordered one of her old servants to take the innocent girl to the Hibari Mountains , the wildest part of the country , and to kill her there.
She invented a dreadful story about the little person_6ss , saying that this was the only way to prevent disgrace falling upon the family -- by killing her.
Katoda , her vassal , was bound to obey his mistress.
Anyhow , he saw that it would be the wisest plan to pretend obedience in the absence of the girl 's father , so he placed person_2-person_4 in a palanquin and accompanied her to the most solitary place he could find in the wild district.
The poor child knew there was no good in protesting to her unkind step-mother at being sent away in this strange manner , so she went as she was told.
But the old servant knew that the young person_6ss was quite innocent of all the things her step-mother had invented to him as reasons for her outrageous orders , and he determined to save her life.
Unless he killed her , however , he could not return to his cruel task-mistress , so he decided to stay out in the wilderness.
With the help of some peasants he soon built a little cottage , and having sent secretly for his wife to come , these two good old people did all in their power to take care of the now unfortunate person_6ss.
She all the time trusted in her father , knowing that as soon as he returned home and found her absent , he would search for her.
person_6 , after some weeks , came home , and was told by his wife that his daughter person_4 had done something wrong and had run away for fear of being punished.
He was nearly ill with anxiety.
Every one in the house told the same story -- that person_2-person_4 had suddenly disappeared , none of them knew why or whither.
For fear of scandal he kept the matter quite and searched everywhere he could think of , but all to no purpose.
One day , trying to forget his terrible worry , he called all his men together and told them to make ready for a several days ' hunt in the mountains.
They were soon ready and mounted , waiting at the gate for their lord.
He rode hard and fast to the district of the Hibari Mountains , a great company following him.
He was soon far ahead of every one , and at last found himself in a narrow picturesque valley.
Looking round and admiring the scenery , he noticed a tiny house on one of the hills quite near , and then he distinctly heard a beautiful clear voice reading aloud.
Seized with curiosity as to who could be studying so diligently in such a lonely spot , he dismounted , and leaving his horse to his groom , he walked up the hillside and approached the cottage.
As he drew nearer his surprise increased , for he could see that the reader was a beautiful girl.
The cottage was wide open and she was sitting facing the view.
Listening attentively , he heard her reading the Buddhist scriptures with great devotion.
More and more curious , he hurried on to the tiny gate and entered the little garden , and looking up beheld his lost daughter person_2-person_4.
She was so intent on what she was saying that she neither heard nor saw her father till he spoke.
`` person_2-person_4 !"
he cried , `` it is you.
my person_2-person_4 !"
Taken by surprise , she could hardly realize that it was her own dear father who was calling her , and for a moment she was utterly bereft of the power to speak or move.
`` My father , my father ! It is indeed you -- oh , my father !"
was all she could say , and running to him she caught hold of his thick sleeve , and burying her face burst into a passion of tears.
Her father stroked her dark hair , asking her gently to tell him all that had happened , but she only wept on , and he wondered if he were not really dreaming.
Then the faithful old servant Katoda came out , and bowing himself to the ground before his master , poured out the long tale of wrong , telling him all that had happened , and how it was that he found his daughter in such a wild and desolate spot with only two old servants to take care of her.
The person_6 's astonishment and indignation knew no bounds.
He gave up the hunt at once and hurried home with his daughter.
One of the company galloped ahead to inform the household of the glad news , and the step-mother hearing what had happened , and fearful of meeting her husband now that her wickedness was discovered , fled from the house and returned in disgrace to her father 's roof , and nothing more was heard of her.
The old servant Katoda was rewarded with the highest promotion in his master 's service , and lived happily to the end of his days , devoted to the little person_6ss , who never forgot that she owed her life to this faithful retainer.
She was no longer troubled by an unkind step-mother , and her days passed happily and quietly with her father.
As person_6 had no son , he adopted a younger son of one of the person_0 nobles to be his heir , and to marry his daughter person_2 - person_4 , and in a few years the marriage took place.
person_2-person_4 lived to a good old age , and all said that she was the wisest , most devout , and most beautiful mistress that had ever reigned in person_6 's ancient house.
She had the joy of presenting her son , the future lord of the family , to her father just before he retired from active life.
To this day there is preserved a piece of needle-work in one of the Buddhist temples of Kioto.
It is a beautiful piece of tapestry , with the figure of Buddha embroidered in the silky threads drawn from the stem of the lotus.
This is said to have been the work of the hands of the good person_6ss person_2"
Long , long ago there lived a great Chinese person_5 who succeeded her brother the Emperor Fuki.
It was the age of giants , and the person_5 , for that was her name , was twenty-five feet high , nearly as tall as her brother.
She was a wonderful woman , and an able ruler.
There is an interesting story of how she mended a part of the broken heavens and one of the terrestrial pillars which upheld the sky , both of which were damaged during a rebellion raised by one of person_3 Fuki 's subjects.
The rebel 's name was person_0.
He was twenty-six feet high.
His body was entirely covered with hair , and his face was as black as iron.
He was a wizard and a very terrible character indeed.
When the Emperor Fuki died , person_0 was bitten with the ambition to be Emperor of China , but his plan failed , and person_2 , the dead Emperor 's sister , mounted the throne.
person_0 was so angry at being thwarted in his desire that he raised a revolt.
His first act was to employ the Water Devil , who caused a great flood to rush over the country.
This swamped the poor people out of their homes , and when the person_5 saw the plight of her subjects , and knew it was person_0 's fault , she declared war against him.
Now person_2 , the person_5 , had two young warriors called person_4 and person_1 , and the former she made General of the front forces.
person_4 was delighted that the person_5 's choice should fall on him , and he prepared himself for battle.
He took up the longest lance he could find and mounted a red horse , and was just about to set out when he heard some one galloping hard behind him and shouting : `` person_4 ! Stop ! The general of the front forces must be I !"
He looked back and saw person_1 his comrade , riding on a white horse , in the act of unsheathing a large sword to draw upon him.
person_4 's anger was kindled , and as he turned to face his rival he cried : `` Insolent wretch ! I have been appointed by the person_5 to lead the front forces to battle.
Do you dare to stop me ?"
`` Yes ,"
answered person_1.
`` I ought to lead the army.
It is you who should follow me"
At this bold reply person_4 's anger burst from a spark into a flame.
`` Dare you answer me thus ? Take that ,"
and he lunged at him with his lance.
But person_1 moved quickly aside , and at the same time , raising his sword , he wounded the head of the General 's horse.
Obliged to dismount , person_4 was about to rush at his antagonist , when person_1 , as quick as lightning , tore from his breast the badge of commandership and galloped away.
The action was so quick that person_4 stood dazed , not knowing what to do.
The person_5 had been a spectator of the scene , and she could not but admire the quickness of the ambitious person_1 , and in order to pacify the rivals she determined to appoint them both to the Generalship of the front army.
So person_4 was made commander of the left wing of the front army , and person_1 of the right.
One hundred thousand soldiers followed them and marched to put down the rebel person_0.
Within a short time the two Generals reached the castle where person_0 had fortified himself.
When aware of their approach , the wizard said : `` I will blow these two poor children away with one breath"
-LRB- He little thought how hard he would find the fight.
-RRB- With these words person_0 seized an iron rod and mounted a black horse , and rushed forth like an angry tiger to meet his two foes.
As the two young warriors saw him tearing down upon them , they said to each other : `` We must not let him escape alive ,"
and they attacked him from the right and from the left with sword and with lance.
But the all-powerful person_0 was not to be easily beaten -- he whirled his iron rod round like a great water-wheel , and for a long time they fought thus , neither side gaining nor losing.
At last , to avoid the wizard 's iron rod , person_4 turned his horse too quickly ; the animal 's hoofs struck against a large stone , and in a fright the horse reared as straight on end as a screen , throwing his master to the ground.
Thereupon person_0 drew his three-edged sword and was about to kill the prostrate person_4 , but before the wizard could work his wicked will the brave person_1 had wheeled his horse in front of person_0 and dared him to try his strength with him , and not to kill a fallen man.
But person_0 was tired , and he did not feel inclined to face this fresh and dauntless young soldier , so suddenly wheeling his horse round , he fled from the fray.
person_4 , who had been only slightly stunned , had by this time got upon his feet , and he and his comrade rushed after the retreating enemy , the one on foot and the other on horseback.
person_0 , seeing that he was pursued , turned upon his nearest assailant , who was , of course , the mounted person_1 , and drawing forth an arrow from the quiver at his back , fitted it to his bow and drew upon person_1.
As quick as lightning the wary person_1 avoided the shaft , which only touched his helmet strings , and glancing off , fell harmless against person_4 's coat of armor.
The wizard saw that both his enemies remained unscathed.
He also knew that there was no time to pull a second arrow before they would be upon him , so to save himself he resorted to magic.
He stretched forth his wand , and immediately a great flood arose , and person_2 's army and her brave young Generals were swept away like a falling of autumn leaves on a stream.
person_4 and person_1 found themselves struggling neck deep in water , and looking round they saw the ferocious person_0 making towards them through the water with his iron rod on high.
They thought every moment that they would be cut down , but they bravely struck out to swim as far as they could from person_0 's reach.
All of a sudden they found themselves in front of what seemed to be an island rising straight out of the water.
They looked up , and there stood an old man with hair as white as snow , smiling at them.
They cried to him to help them.
The old man nodded his head and came down to the edge of the water.
As soon as his feet touched the flood it divided , and a good road appeared , to the amazement of the drowning men , who now found themselves safe.
person_0 had by this time reached the island which had risen as if by a miracle out of the water , and seeing his enemies thus saved he was furious.
He rushed through the water upon the old man , and it seemed as if he would surely be killed.
But the old man appeared not in the least dismayed , and calmly awaited the wizard 's onslaught.
As person_0 drew near , the old man laughed aloud merrily , and turning into a large and beautiful white crane , flapped his wings and flew upwards into the heavens.
When person_4 and person_1 saw this , they knew that their deliverer was no mere human being -- was perhaps a god in disguise -- and they hoped later on to find out who the venerable old man was.
In the meantime they had retreated , and it being now the close of day , for the sun was setting , both person_0 and the young warriors gave up the idea of fighting more that day.
That night person_4 and person_1 decided that it was useless to fight against the wizard person_0 , for he had supernatural powers , while they were only human.
So they presented themselves before the person_5.
After a long consultation , the person_5 decided to ask the Fire person_3 , Shikuyu , to help her against the rebel wizard and to lead her army against him.
Now Shikuyu , the Fire person_3 , lived at the South Pole.
It was the only safe place for him to be in , for he burnt up everything around him anywhere else , but it was impossible to burn up ice and snow.
To look at he was a giant , and stood thirty feet high.
His face was just like marble , and his hair and beard long and as white as snow.
His strength was stupendous , and he was master of all fire just as person_0 was of water.
`` Surely ,"
thought the person_5 , `` Shikuyu can conquer person_0"
So she sent person_1 to the South Pole to beg Shikuyu to take the war against person_0 into his own hands and conquer him once for all.
The Fire person_3 , on hearing the person_5 's request , smiled and said : `` That is an easy matter , to be sure ! It was none other than I who came to your rescue when you and your companion were drowning in the flood raised by person_0 !"
person_1 was surprised at learning this.
He thanked the Fire person_3 for coming to the rescue in their dire need , and then besought him to return with him and lead the war and defeat the wicked person_0.
Shikuyu did as he was asked , and returned with person_1 to the person_5.
She welcomed the Fire person_3 cordially , and at once told him why she had sent for him -- to ask him to be the Generalissimo of her army.
His reply was very reassuring : `` Do not have any anxiety.
I will certainly kill person_0"
Shikuyu then placed himself at the head of thirty thousand soldiers , and with person_4 and person_1 showing him the way , marched to the enemy 's castle.
The Fire person_3 knew the secret of person_0 's power , and he now told all the soldiers to gather a certain kind of shrub.
This they burned in large quantities , and each soldier was then ordered to fill a bag full of the ashes thus obtained.
person_0 , on the other hand , in his own conceit , thought that Shikuyu was of inferior power to himself , and he murmured angrily : `` Even though you are the Fire person_3 , I can soon extinguish you"
Then he repeated an incantation , and the water-floods rose and welled as high as mountains.
Shikuyu , not in the least frightened , ordered his soldiers to scatter the ashes which he had caused them to make.
Every man did as he was bid , and such was the power of the plant that they had burned , that as soon as the ashes mingled with the water a stiff mud was formed , and they were all safe from drowning.
Now person_0 the wizard was dismayed when he saw that the Fire person_3 was superior in wisdom to himself , and his anger was so great that he rushed headlong towards the enemy.
person_1 rode to meet him , and the two fought together for some time.
They were well matched in a hand-to-hand combat.
person_4 , who was carefully watching the fray , saw that person_1 began to tire , and fearing that his companion would be killed , he took his place.
But person_0 had tired as well , and feeling him self unable to hold out against person_4 , he said artfully : `` You are too magnanimous , thus to fight for your friend and run the risk of being killed.
I will not hurt such a good man"
And he pretended to retreat , turning away the head of his horse.
His intention was to throw person_4 off his guard and then to wheel round and take him by surprise.
But Shikuyu understood the wily wizard , and he spoke at once : `` You are a coward ! You can not deceive me !"
Saying this , the Fire person_3 made a sign to the unwary person_4 to attack him.
person_0 now turned upon Shikuyu furiously , but he was tired and unable to fight well , and he soon received a wound in his shoulder.
He now broke from the fray and tried to escape in earnest.
While the fight between their leaders had been going on the two armies had stood waiting for the issue.
Shikuyu now turned and bade person_2 's soldiers charge the enemy 's forces.
This they did , and routed them with great slaughter , and the wizard barely escaped with his life.
It was in vain that person_0 called upon the Water Devil to help him , for Shikuyu knew the counter-charm.
The wizard found that the battle was against him.
Mad with pain , for his wound began to trouble him , and frenzied with disappointment and fear , he dashed his head against the rocks of Mount Shu and died on the spot.
There was an end of the wicked person_0 , but not of trouble in the person_5 's person_3dom , as you shall see.
The force with which the wizard fell against the rocks was so great that the mountain burst , and fire rushed out from the earth , and one of the pillars upholding the Heavens was broken so that one corner of the sky dropped till it touched the earth.
Shikuyu , the Fire person_3 , took up the body of the wizard and carried it to the person_5 , who rejoiced greatly that her enemy was vanquished , and her generals victorious.
She showered all manner of gifts and honors upon Shikuyu.
But all this time fire was bursting from the mountain broken by the fall of person_0.
Whole villages were destroyed , rice-fields burnt up , river beds filled with the burning lava , and the homeless people were in great distress.
So the person_5 left the capital as soon as she had rewarded the victor Shikuyu , and journeyed with all speed to the scene of disaster.
She found that both Heaven and earth had sustained damage , and the place was so dark that she had to light her lamp to find out the extent of the havoc that had been wrought.
Having ascertained this , she set to work at repairs.
To this end she ordered her subjects to collect stones of five colors -- blue , yellow , red , white and black.
When she had obtained these , she boiled them with a kind of porcelain in a large caldron , and the mixture became a beautiful paste , and with this she knew that she could mend the sky.
Now all was ready.
Summoning the clouds that were sailing ever so high above her head , she mounted them , and rode heavenwards , carrying in her hands the vase containing the paste made from the stones of five colors.
She soon reached the corner of the sky that was broken , and applied the paste and mended it.
Having done this , she turned her attention to the broken pillar , and with the legs of a very large tortoise she mended it.
When this was finished she mounted the clouds and descended to the earth , hoping to find that all was now right , but to her dismay she found that it was still quite dark.
Neither the sun shone by day nor the moon by night.
Greatly perplexed , she at last called a meeting of all the wise men of the person_3dom , and asked their advice as to what she should do in this dilemma.
Two of the wisest said : `` The roads of Heaven have been damaged by the late accident , and the Sun and Moon have been obliged to stay at home.
Neither the Sun could make his daily journey nor the Moon her nightly one because of the bad roads.
The Sun and Moon do not yet know that your Majesty has mended all that was damaged , so we will go and inform them that since you have repaired them the roads are safe"
The person_5 approved of what the wise men suggested , and ordered them to set out on their mission.
But this was not easy , for the Palace of the Sun and Moon was many , many hundreds of thousands of miles distant into the East.
If they traveled on foot they might never reach the place , they would die of old age on the road.
But person_2 had recourse to magic.
She gave her two ambassadors wonderful chariots which could whirl through the air by magic power a thousand miles per minute.
They set out in good spirits , riding above the clouds , and after many days they reached the country where the Sun and the Moon were living happily together.
The two ambassadors were granted an interview with their Majesties of Light and asked them why they had for so many days secluded themselves from the Universe ? Did they not know that by doing so they plunged the world and all its people into uttermost darkness both day and night ? Replied the Sun and the Moon : `` Surely you know that Mount Shu has suddenly burst forth with fire , and the roads of Heaven have been greatly damaged ! I , the Sun , found it impossible to make my daily journey along such rough roads -- and certainly the Moon could not issue forth at night ! so we both retired into private life for a time"
Then the two wise men bowed themselves to the ground and said : `` Our person_5 has already repaired the roads with the wonderful stones of five colors , so we beg to assure your Majesties that the roads are just as they were before the eruption took place"
But the Sun and the Moon still hesitated , saying that they had heard that one of the pillars of Heaven had been broken as well , and they feared that , even if the roads had been remade , it would still be dangerous for them to sally forth on their usual journeys.
`` You need have no anxiety about the broken pillar ,"
said the two ambassadors.
`` Our person_5 restored it with the legs of a great tortoise , and it is as firm as ever it was"
Then the Sun and Moon appeared satisfied , and they both set out to try the roads.
They found that what the person_5 's deputies had told them was correct.
After the examination of the heavenly roads , the Sun and Moon again gave light to the earth.
All the people rejoiced greatly , and peace and prosperity were secured in China for a long time under the reign of the wise person_5"
In a narrow crooked street , among other abodes of poverty , stood an especially narrow and tall house built of timber , which time had knocked about in such fashion that it seemed to be out of joint in every direction.
The house was inhabited by poor people , and the deepest poverty was apparent in the garret lodging in the gable , where , in front of the only window , hung an old bent birdcage , which had not even a proper water-glass , but only a bottle-neck reversed , with a cork stuck in the mouth , to do duty for one.
An old maid stood by the window : she had hung the cage with green chickweed ; and a little chaffinch hopped from perch to perch , and sang and twittered merrily enough.
`` Yes , it 's all very well for you to sing ,"
said the person_0-neck ; that is to say , it did not pronounce the words as we can speak them , for a bottle-neck ca n't speak ; but that 's what he thought to himself in his own mind , like when we people talk quietly to ourselves.
`` Yes , it 's all very well for you to sing , you that have all your limbs uninjured.
You ought to feel what it 's like to lose one 's body , and to have only mouth and neck left , and to be hampered with work into the bargain , as in my case ; and then I 'm sure you would not sing.
But after all it is well that there should be somebody at least who is merry.
I 've no reason to sing , and , moreover , I ca n't sing.
Yes , when I was a whole bottle , I sung out well if they rubbed me with a cork.
They used to call me a perfect lark , a magnificent lark ! Ah , when I was out at a picnic with the tanner 's family , and his daughter was betrothed ! Yes , I remember it as if it had happened only yesterday.
I have gone through a great deal , when I come to recollect.
I 've been in the fire and the water , have been deep in the black earth , and have mounted higher than most of the others ; and now I 'm hanging here , outside the birdcage , in the air and the sunshine ! Oh , it would be quite worth while to hear my history ; but I do n't speak aloud of it , because I ca n't"
And now the person_0-neck told its story , which was sufficiently remarkable.
It told the story to itself , or only thought it in its own mind ; and the little bird sang his song merrily , and down in the street there was driving and hurrying , and every one thought of his own affairs , or perhaps of nothing at all ; and only the person_0-neck thought.
It thought of the flaming furnace in the manufactory , where it had been blown into life ; it still remembered that it had been quite warm , that it had glanced into the hissing furnace , the home of its origin , and had felt a great desire to leap directly back again ; but that gradually it had become cooler , and had been very comfortable in the place to which it was taken.
It had stood in a rank with a whole regiment of brothers and sisters , all out of the same furnace ; some of them had certainly been blown into champagne bottles , and others into beer bottles , and that makes a difference.
Later , out in the world , it may well happen that a beer bottle may contain the most precious wine , and a champagne bottle be filled with blacking ; but even in decay there is always something left by which people can see what one has been -- nobility is nobility , even when filled with blacking.
All the bottles were packed up , and our bottle was among them.
At that time it did not think to finish its career as a bottle-neck , or that it should work its way up to be a bird 's glass , which is always an honorable thing ; for one is of some consequence , after all.
The bottle did not again behold the light of day till it was unpacked with the other bottles in the cellar of the wine merchant , and rinsed out for the first time ; and that was a strange sensation.
There it lay , empty and without a cork , and felt strangely unwell , as if it wanted something , it could not tell what.
At last it was filled with good costly wine , and was provided with a cork , and sealed down.
A ticket was placed on it , marked `` first quality ;"
and it felt as if it had carried off the first prize at an examination ; for , you see , the wine was good and the bottle was good.
When one is young , that 's the time for poetry ! There was a singing and sounding within it , of things which it could not understand -- of green sunny mountains , whereon the grape grows , where many vine dressers , men and women , sing and dance and rejoice.
`` Ah , how beautiful is life !"
There was a singing and sounding to all this in the bottle , as in a young poet 's brain ; and many a young poet does not understand the meaning of the song that is within him.
One morning the bottle was bought , for the tanner 's apprentice was dispatched for a bottle of wine -- `` of the best"
And now it was put in the provision basket , with ham and cheese and sausages ; the finest butter and the best bread were put into the basket too , the tanner 's daughter herself packed it.
She was young and pretty ; her brown eyes laughed , and round her mouth played a smile as elegant as that in her eyes.
She had delicate hands , beautifully white , and her neck was whiter still ; you saw at once that she was one of the most beautiful girls in the town : and still she was not engaged.
The provision basket was in the lap of the young girl when the family drove out into the forest.
The bottle-neck looked out from the folds of the white napkin.
There was red wax upon the cork , and the bottle looked straight into the girl 's face.
It also looked at the young sailor who sat next to the girl.
He was a friend of old days , the son of the portrait painter.
Quite lately he had passed with honor through his examination as mate , and to-morrow he was to sail away in a ship , far off to a distant land.
There had been much talk of this while the basket was being packed ; and certainly the eyes and mouth of the tanner 's pretty daughter did not wear a very joyous expression just then.
The young people sauntered through the green wood , and talked to one another.
What were they talking of ? No , the bottle could not hear that , for it was in the provision basket.
A long time passed before it was drawn forth ; but when that happened , there had been pleasant things going on , for all were laughing , and the tanner 's daughter laughed too ; but she spoke less than before , and her cheeks glowed like two roses.
The father took the full bottle and the corkscrew in his hand.
Yes , it 's a strange thing to be drawn thus , the first time ! The bottle-neck could never afterwards forget that impressive moment ; and indeed there was quite a convulsion within him when the cork flew out , and a great throbbing as the wine poured forth into the glasses.
`` Health to the betrothed pair !"
cried the papa ; and every glass was emptied to the dregs , and the young mate kissed his beautiful bride.
`` Happiness and blessing !"
said the two old people , the father and mother ; and the young man filled the glasses again.
`` Safe return , and a wedding this day next year !"
he cried ; and when the glasses were emptied , he took the bottle , raised it on high , and said , `` Thou hast been present at the happiest day of my life , thou shalt never serve another !"
And so saying he hurled it high into the air.
The tanner 's daughter did not then think that she should see the bottle fly again ; and yet it was to be so.
It then fell into the thick reeds on the margin of a little woodland lake ; and the bottle-neck could remember quite plainly how it lay there for some time.
`` I gave them wine , and they gave me marsh-water ,"
he said ; `` but it was all meant for the best"
He could no longer see the betrothed couple and the cheerful old people ; but for a long time he could hear them rejoicing and singing.
Then at last came two peasant boys , and looked into the reeds ; they spied out the bottle , and took it up ; and now it was provided for.
At their home , in the wood cottage , the eldest of these brothers , who was a sailor , and about to start on a long voyage , had been the day before to take leave : the mother was just engaged packing up various things he was to take with him on his journey , and which the father was going to carry into the town that evening to see his son once more , and to give him a farewell greeting for the lad 's mother and himself.
A little bottle of medicated brandy had already been wrapped up in a parcel , when the boys came in with a larger and stronger bottle which they had found.
This bottle would hold more than the little one , and they pronounced that the brandy would be capital for a bad digestion , inasmuch as it was mixed with medical herbs.
The draught that was now poured into the bottle was not so good as the red wine with which it had once been filled ; these were bitter drops , but even these are sometimes good.
The new big bottle was to go , and not the little one ; and so the bottle went traveling again.
It was taken on board for Peter Jensen , in the very same ship in which the young mate sailed.
But he did not see the bottle ; and , indeed , he would not have known it , or thought it was the same one out of which they had drunk a health to the betrothed pair , and to his own happy return.
-LRB- Illustration : THE BOTTLE IS PRESENT ON A JOYOUS OCCASION.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Certainly it had no longer wine to give , but still it contained something that was just as good.
Accordingly , whenever Peter Jensen brought it out , it was dubbed by his messmates The Apothecary.
It contained the best medicine , medicine that strengthened the weak , and it gave liberally so long as it had a drop left.
That was a pleasant time , and the bottle sang when it was rubbed with the cork ; and it was called the Great Lark , `` Peter Jensen 's Lark"
Long days and months rolled on , and the bottle already stood empty in a corner , when it happened -- whether on the passage out or home the bottle could not tell , for it had never been ashore -- that a storm arose ; great waves came careering along , darkly and heavily , and lifted and tossed the ship to and fro.
The mainmast was shivered , and a wave started one of the planks , and the pumps became useless.
It was black night.
The ship sank ; but at the last moment the young mate wrote on a leaf of paper , `` God 's will be done ! We are sinking !"
He wrote the name of his betrothed , and his own name , and that of the ship , and put the leaf in an empty bottle that happened to be at hand : he corked it firmly down , and threw it out into the foaming sea.
He knew not that it was the very bottle from which the goblet of joy and hope had once been filled for him ; and now it was tossing on the waves with his last greeting and the message of death.
The ship sank , and the crew sank with her.
The bottle sped on like a bird , for it bore a heart , a loving letter , within itself.
And the sun rose and set ; and the bottle felt as at the time when it first came into being in the red gleaming oven -- it felt a strong desire to leap back into the light.
It experienced calms and fresh storms ; but it was hurled against no rock , and was devoured by no shark ; and thus it drifted on for a year and a day , sometimes towards the north , sometimes towards the south , just as the current carried it.
Beyond this it was its own master , but one may grow tired even of that.
The written page , the last farewell of the bridegroom to his betrothed , would only bring sorrow if it came into her hands ; but where were the hands , so white and delicate , which had once spread the cloth on the fresh grass in the greenwood , on the betrothal day ? Where was the tanner 's daughter ? Yes , where was the land , and which land might be nearest to her dwelling ? The bottle knew not ; it drove onward and onward , and was at last tired of wandering , because that was not in its way ; but yet it had to travel until at last it came to land -- to a strange land.
It understood not a word of what was spoken here , for this was not the language it had heard spoken before ; and one loses a good deal if one does not understand the language.
The bottle was fished out and examined on all sides.
The leaf of paper within it was discovered , and taken out , and turned over and over , but the people did not understand what was written thereon.
They saw that the bottle must have been thrown overboard , and that something about this was written on the paper , but what were the words ? That question remained unanswered , and the paper was put back into the bottle , and the latter was deposited in a great cupboard , in a great room , in a great house.
Whenever strangers came the paper was brought out , and turned over and over , so that the inscription , which was only written in pencil , became more and more illegible , so that at last no one could see that there were letters on it.
And for a whole year more the bottle remained standing in the cupboard ; and then it was put into the loft , where it became covered with dust and cobwebs.
Ah , how often it thought of the better days , the times when it had poured forth red wine in the greenwood , when it had been rocked on the waves of the sea , and when it had carried a secret , a letter , a parting sigh , safely enclosed in its bosom.
For full twenty years it stood up in the loft ; and it might have remained there longer , but that the house was to be rebuilt.
The roof was taken off , and then the bottle was noticed , and they spoke about it , but it did not understand their language ; for one can not learn a language by being shut up in a loft , even if one stays there for twenty years.
`` If I had been down in the room ,"
thought the person_0 , `` I might have learned it"
It was now washed and rinsed , and indeed this was requisite.
It felt quite transparent and fresh , and as if its youth had been renewed in this its old age ; but the paper it had carried so faithfully had been destroyed in the washing.
The bottle was filled with seeds , though it scarcely knew what they were.
It was corked , and well wrapped up.
No light nor lantern was it vouchsafed to behold , much less the sun or the moon ; and yet , it thought , when one goes on a journey one ought to see something ; but though it saw nothing , it did what was most important -- it traveled to the place of its destination , and was there unpacked.
`` What trouble they have taken over yonder with that bottle !"
it heard people say ; `` and yet it is most likely broken"
But it was not broken.
The bottle understood every word that was now said ; this was the language it had heard at the furnace , and at the wine merchant 's , and in the forest , and in the ship , the only good old language it understood : it had come back home , and the language was as a salutation of welcome to it.
For very joy it felt ready to jump out of people 's hands ; hardly did it notice that its cork had been drawn , and that it had been emptied and carried into the cellar , to be placed there and forgotten.
There 's no place like home , even if it 's in a cellar ! It never occurred to the bottle to think how long it would lie there , for it felt comfortable , and accordingly lay there for years.
At last people came down into the cellar to carry off all the bottles , and ours among the rest.
Out in the garden there was a great festival.
Flaming lamps hung like garlands , and paper lanterns shone transparent , like great tulips.
The evening was lovely , the weather still and clear , the stars twinkled ; it was the time of the new moon , but in reality the whole moon could be seen as a bluish gray disc with a golden rim round half its surface , which was a very beautiful sight for those who had good eyes.
The illumination extended even to the most retired of the garden walks ; at least so much of it , that one could find one 's way there.
Among the leaves of the hedges stood bottles , with a light in each ; and among them was also the bottle we know , and which was destined one day to finish its career as a bottle-neck , a bird 's drinking-glass.
Everything here appeared lovely to our bottle , for it was once more in the greenwood , amid joy and feasting , and heard song and music , and the noise and murmur of a crowd , especially in that part of the garden where the lamps blazed and the paper lanterns displayed their many colors.
Thus it stood , in a distant walk certainly , but that made it the more important ; for it bore its light , and was at once ornamental and useful , and that is as it should be : in such an hour one forgets twenty years spent in a loft , and it is right one should do so.
There passed close to it a pair , like the pair who had walked together long ago in the wood , the sailor and the tanner 's daughter ; the bottle seemed to experience all that over again.
In the garden were walking not only the guests , but other people who were allowed to view all the splendor ; and among these latter came an old maid who seemed to stand alone in the world.
She was just thinking , like the bottle , of the greenwood , and of a young betrothed pair -- of a pair which concerned her very nearly , a pair in which she had an interest , and of which she had been a part , in that happiest hour of her life -- the hour one never forgets , if one should become ever so old a maid.
But she did not know our bottle , nor did the bottle recognize the old maid : it is thus we pass each other in the world , meeting again and again , as these two met , now that they were together again in the same town.
From the garden the bottle was dispatched once more to the wine merchant 's , where it was filled with wine , and sold to the aeronaut , who was to make an ascent in his balloon on the following Sunday.
A great crowd had assembled to witness the sight ; military music had been provided , and many other preparations had been made.
The bottle saw everything , from a basket in which it lay next to a live rabbit , which latter was quite bewildered because he knew he was to be taken up into the air , and let down again in a parachute ; but the bottle knew nothing of the `` up"
or the `` down ;"
it only saw the balloon swelling up bigger and bigger , and at last , when it could swell no more , beginning to rise , and to grow more and more restless.
The ropes that held it were cut , and the huge machine floated aloft with the aeronaut and the basket containing the bottle and the rabbit , and the music sounded , and all the people cried , `` Hurrah !"
`` This is a wonderful passage , up into the air !"
thought the person_0 ; `` this is a new way of sailing ; at any rate , up here we can not strike upon anything"
Thousands of people gazed up at the balloon , and the old maid looked up at it also ; she stood at the open window of the garret , in which hung the cage with the little chaffinch , who had no water-glass as yet , but was obliged to be content with an old cup.
In the window stood a myrtle in a pot ; and it had been put a little aside that it might not fall out , for the old maid was leaning out of the window to look , and she distinctly saw the aeronaut in the balloon , and how he let down the rabbit in the parachute , and then drank to the health of all the spectators , and at length hurled the bottle high in the air ; she never thought that this was the identical bottle which she had already once seen thrown aloft in honor of her and of her friend on the day of rejoicing in the greenwood , in the time of her youth.
The bottle had no respite for thought ; for it was quite startled at thus suddenly reaching the highest point in its career.
Steeples and roofs lay far , far beneath , and the people looked like mites.
But now it began to descend with a much more rapid fall than that of the rabbit ; the bottle threw somersaults in the air , and felt quite young , and quite free and unfettered ; and yet it was half full of wine , though it did not remain so long.
What a journey ! The sun shone on the bottle , all the people were looking at it , the balloon was already far away , and soon the bottle was far away too ; for it fell upon a roof and broke ; but the pieces had got such an impetus that they could not stop themselves , but went jumping and rolling on till they came down into the courtyard and lay there in smaller pieces yet ; the bottle-neck only managed to keep whole , and that was cut off as clean as if it had been done with a diamond.
`` That would do capitally for a bird-glass ,"
said the cellarmen ; but they had neither a bird nor a cage ; and to expect them to provide both because they had found a bottle-neck that might be made available for a glass , would have been expecting too much ; but the old maid in the garret , perhaps it might be useful to her ; and now the bottle-neck was taken up to her , and was provided with a cork.
The part that had been uppermost was now turned downwards , as often happens when changes take place ; fresh water was poured into it , and it was fastened to the cage of the little bird , which sung and twittered right merrily.
`` Yes , it 's very well for you to sing ,"
said the person_0-neck ; and it was considered remarkable for having been in the balloon -- for that was all they knew of its history.
Now it hung there as a bird-glass , and heard the murmuring and noise of the people in the street below , and also the words of the old maid in the room within.
An old friend had just come to visit her , and they talked -- not of the bottle-neck , but about the myrtle in the window.
`` No , you certainly must not spend a dollar for your daughter 's bridal wreath ,"
said the old maid.
`` You shall have a beautiful little nosegay from me , full of blossoms.
Do you see how splendidly that tree has come on ? yes , that has been raised from a spray of the myrtle you gave me on the day after my betrothal , and from which I was to have made my own wreath when the year was past ; but that day never came ! The eyes closed that were to have been my joy and delight through life.
In the depths of the sea he sleeps sweetly , my dear one ! The myrtle has become an old tree , and I become a yet older woman ; and when it faded at last , I took the last green shoot , and planted it in the ground , and it has become a great tree ; and now at length the myrtle will serve at the wedding -- as a wreath for your daughter"
There were tears in the eyes of the old maid.
She spoke of the beloved of her youth , of their betrothal in the wood ; many thoughts came to her , but the thought never came , that quite close to her , before the very window , was a remembrance of those times ; the neck of the bottle which had shouted for joy when the cork flew out with a bang on the betrothal day.
But the bottle-neck did not recognize her , for he was not listening to what this old maid said -- and still that was because he was thinking of her"
ONCE upon a time there was an old pig called Aunt person_0.
She had eight of a family : four little girl pigs , called Cross-patch , Suck-suck , Yock-yock and Spot ; and four little boy pigs , called person_1 , person_2ling person_4 , Chin - chin and Stumpy.
Stumpy had had an accident to his tail.
The eight little pigs had very fine appetites.
`` Yus , yus , yus ! they eat and indeed they DO eat !"
said Aunt person_0 , looking at her family with pride.
Suddenly there were fearful squeals ; person_1 had squeezed inside the hoops of the pig trough and stuck.
Aunt person_0 and I dragged him out by the hind legs.
Chin-chin was already in disgrace ; it was washing day , and he had eaten a piece of soap.
And presently in a basket of clean clothes , we found another dirty little pig.
`` Tchut , tut , tut ! whichever is this ?"
grunted Aunt person_0.
Now all the pig family are pink , or pink with black spots , but this pig child was smutty black all over ; when it had been popped into a tub , it proved to be Yock-yock.
I went into the garden ; there I found Cross-patch and Suck-suck rooting up carrots.
I whipped them myself and led them out by the ears.
Cross-patch tried to bite me.
`` Aunt person_0 , Aunt person_0 ! you are a worthy person , but your family is not well brought up.
Every one of them has been in mischief except Spot and person_2ling person_4"
`` Yus , yus !"
sighed Aunt person_0.
`` And they drink bucketfuls of milk ; I shall have to get another cow ! Good little Spot shall stay at home to do the housework ; but the others must go.
Four little boy pigs and four little girl pigs are too many altogether"
`` Yus , yus , yus ,"
said Aunt person_0 , `` there will be more to eat without them"
So Chin-chin and Suck-suck went away in a wheel-barrow , and Stumpy , Yock-yock and Cross - patch rode away in a cart.
And the other two little boy pigs , person_2ling person_4 and person_1 , went to market.
We brushed their coats , we curled their tails and washed their little faces , and wished them good-bye in the yard.
Aunt person_0 wiped her eyes with a large pocket handkerchief , then she wiped person_2ling person_4 's nose and shed tears ; then she wiped person_1 's nose and shed tears ; then she passed the handkerchief to Spot.
Aunt person_0 sighed and grunted , and addressed those little pigs as follows : `` Now person_2ling person_4 , son person_2ling person_4 , you must go to market.
Take your brother person_1 by the hand.
Mind your Sunday clothes , and remember to blow your nose"
-- -LRB- Aunt person_0 passed round the handkerchief again -RRB- -- `` beware of traps , hen roosts , bacon and eggs ; always walk upon your hind legs"
person_2ling person_4 , who was a sedate little pig , looked solemnly at his mother , a tear trickled down his cheek.
Aunt person_0 turned to the other -- `` Now son person_1 take the hand"
-- `` Wee , wee , wee !"
giggled person_1 -- `` take the hand of your brother person_2ling person_4 , you must go to market.
Mind --"
`` Wee , wee , wee !"
interrupted person_1 again.
`` You put me out ,"
said Aunt person_0.
`` Observe sign-posts and milestones ; do not gobble herring bones --"
`` And remember ,"
said I impressively , `` if you once cross the county boundary you can not come back.
person_1 , you are not attending.
Here are two licences permitting two pigs to go to market in Lancashire.
Attend , person_1.
I have had no end of trouble in getting these papers from the policeman"
person_2ling person_4 listened gravely ; person_1 was hopelessly volatile.
I pinned the papers , for safety , inside their waistcoat pockets ; Aunt person_0 gave to each a little bundle , and eight conversation peppermints with appropriate moral sentiments in screws of paper.
Then they started.
person_2ling person_4 and person_1 trotted along steadily for a mile ; at least person_2ling person_4 did.
person_1 made the road half as long again by skipping from side to side.
He danced about and pinched his brother , singing -- `` This pig went to market , this pig stayed at home , `` This pig had a bit of meat -- let 's see what they have given US for dinner , person_2ling ?"
person_2ling person_4 and person_1 sat down and untied their bundles.
person_1 gobbled up his dinner in no time ; he had already eaten all his own peppermints.
`` Give me one of yours , please , person_2ling"
`` But I wish to preserve them for emergencies ,"
said person_2ling person_4 doubtfully.
person_1 went into squeals of laughter.
Then he pricked person_2ling with the pin that had fastened his pig paper ; and when person_2ling slapped him he dropped the pin , and tried to take person_2ling 's pin , and the papers got mixed up.
person_2ling person_4 reproved person_1.
But presently they made it up again , and trotted away together , singing -- `` Tom , Tom , the piper 's son , stole a pig and away he ran ! `` But all the tune that he could play , was ` Over the hills and far away ! '"
`` What 's that , young sirs ? Stole a pig ? Where are your licences ?"
said the policeman.
They had nearly run against him round a corner.
person_2ling person_4 pulled out his paper ; person_1 , after fumbling , handed over something scrumply -- `` To 2 --> 2 1\ oz.
conversation sweeties at three farthings"
-- `` What 's this ? This ai n't a licence"
person_1 's nose lengthened visibly , he had lost it.
`` I had one , indeed I had , Mr.
Policeman !"
`` It 's not likely they let you start without.
I am passing the farm.
You may walk with me"
`` Can I come back too ?"
inquired person_2ling person_4.
`` I see no reason , young sir ; your paper is all right"
person_2ling person_4 did not like going on alone , and it was beginning to rain.
But it is unwise to argue with the police ; he gave his brother a peppermint , and watched him out of sight.
To conclude the adventures of person_1 -- the policeman sauntered up to the house about tea time , followed by a damp subdued little pig.
I disposed of person_1 in the neighborhood ; he did fairly well when he had settled down.
person_2ling person_4 went on alone dejectedly ; he came to cross-roads and a sign-post -- `` To Market Town , 5 miles ,"
`` Over the Hills , 4 miles ,"
`` To person_0 Farm , 3 miles"
person_2ling person_4 was shocked , there was little hope of sleeping in Market Town , and to-morrow was the hiring fair ; it was deplorable to think how much time had been wasted by the frivolity of person_1.
He glanced wistfully along the road towards the hills , and then set off walking obediently the other way , buttoning up his coat against the rain.
He had never wanted to go ; and the idea of standing all by himself in a crowded market , to be stared at , pushed , and hired by some big strange farmer was very disagreeable -- `` I wish I could have a little garden and grow potatoes ,"
said person_2ling person_4.
He put his cold hand in his pocket and felt his paper , he put his other hand in his other pocket and felt another paper -- person_1 's ! person_2ling squealed ; then ran back frantically , hoping to overtake person_1 and the policeman.
He took a wrong turn -- several wrong turns , and was quite lost.
It grew dark , the wind whistled , the trees creaked and groaned.
person_2ling person_4 became frightened and cried `` Wee , wee , wee ! I ca n't find my way home !"
After an hour 's wandering he got out of the wood ; the moon shone through the clouds , and person_2ling person_4 saw a country that was new to him.
The road crossed a moor ; below was a wide valley with a river twinkling in the moonlight , and beyond , in misty distance , lay the hills.
He saw a small wooden hut , made his way to it , and crept inside -- `` I am afraid it IS a hen house , but what can I do ?"
said person_2ling person_4 , wet and cold and quite tired out.
`` Bacon and eggs , bacon and eggs !"
clucked a hen on a perch.
`` Trap , trap , trap ! cackle , cackle , cackle !"
scolded the disturbed cockerel.
`` To market , to market ! jiggetty jig !"
clucked a broody white hen roosting next to him.
person_2ling person_4 , much alarmed , determined to leave at daybreak.
In the meantime , he and the hens fell asleep.
In less than an hour they were all awakened.
The owner , Mr.
Peter Thomas Piperson , came with a lantern and a hamper to catch six fowls to take to market in the morning.
He grabbed the white hen roosting next to the cock ; then his eye fell upon person_2ling person_4 , squeezed up in a corner.
He made a singular remark -- `` Hallo , here 's another !"
-- seized person_2ling by the scruff of the neck , and dropped him into the hamper.
Then he dropped in five more dirty , kicking , cackling hens upon the top of person_2ling person_4.
The hamper containing six fowls and a young pig was no light weight ; it was taken down hill , unsteadily , with jerks.
person_2ling , although nearly scratched to pieces , contrived to hide the papers and peppermints inside his clothes.
At last the hamper was bumped down upon a kitchen floor , the lid was opened , and person_2ling was lifted out.
He looked up , blinking , and saw an offensively ugly elderly man , grinning from ear to ear.
`` This one 's come of himself , whatever ,"
said Mr.
Piperson , turning person_2ling 's pockets inside out.
He pushed the hamper into a corner , threw a sack over it to keep the hens quiet , put a pot on the fire , and unlaced his boots.
person_2ling person_4 drew forward a coppy stool , and sat on the edge of it , shyly warming his hands.
Mr.
Piperson pulled off a boot and threw it against the wainscot at the further end of the kitchen.
There was a smothered noise -- `` Shut up !"
said Mr.
Piperson.
person_2ling person_4 warmed his hands , and eyed him.
Mr.
Piperson pulled off the other boot and flung it after the first , there was again a curious noise -- `` Be quiet , will ye ?"
said Mr.
Piperson.
person_2ling person_4 sat on the very edge of the coppy stool.
Mr.
Piperson fetched meal from a chest and made porridge.
It seemed to person_2ling that something at the further end of the kitchen was taking a suppressed interest in the cooking , but he was too hungry to be troubled by noises.
Mr.
Piperson poured out three platefuls : for himself , for person_2ling , and a third -- after glaring at person_2ling -- he put away with much scuffling , and locked up.
person_2ling person_4 ate his supper discreetly.
After supper Mr.
Piperson consulted an almanac , and felt person_2ling 's ribs ; it was too late in the season for curing bacon , and he grudged his meal.
Besides , the hens had seen this pig.
He looked at the small remains of a flitch , and then looked undecidedly at person_2ling.
`` You may sleep on the rug ,"
said Mr.
Peter Thomas Piperson.
person_2ling person_4 slept like a top.
In the morning Mr.
Piperson made more porridge ; the weather was warmer.
He looked to see how much meal was left in the chest , and seemed dissatisfied -- `` You 'll likely be moving on again ?"
said he to person_2ling person_4.
Before person_2ling could reply , a neighbor , who was giving Mr.
Piperson and the hens a lift , whistled from the gate.
Mr.
Piperson hurried out with the hamper , enjoining person_2ling to shut the door behind him and not meddle with nought ; or `` I 'll come back and skin ye !"
said Mr.
Piperson.
It crossed person_2ling 's mind that if HE had asked for a lift , too , he might still have been in time for market.
But he distrusted Peter Thomas.
After finishing breakfast at his leisure , person_2ling had a look round the cottage ; everything was locked up.
He found some potato peelings in a bucket in the back kitchen.
person_2ling ate the peel , and washed up the porridge plates in the bucket.
He sang while he worked -- `` Tom with his pipe made such a noise , He called up all the girls and boys -- `` And they all ran to hear him play"
` Over the hills and far away ! '"
Suddenly a little smothered voice chimed in -- `` Over the hills and a great way off , The wind shall blow my top knot off !"
person_2ling person_4 put down a plate which he was wiping , and listened.
After a long pause , person_2ling went on tip-toe and peeped round the door into the front kitchen.
There was nobody there.
After another pause , person_2ling approached the door of the locked cupboard , and snuffed at the key - hole.
It was quite quiet.
After another long pause , person_2ling pushed a peppermint under the door.
It was sucked in immediately.
In the course of the day person_2ling pushed in all the remaining six peppermints.
When Mr.
Piperson returned , he found person_2ling sitting before the fire ; he had brushed up the hearth and put on the pot to boil ; the meal was not get-at-able.
Mr.
Piperson was very affable ; he slapped person_2ling on the back , made lots of porridge and forgot to lock the meal chest.
He did lock the cupboard door ; but without properly shutting it.
He went to bed early , and told person_2ling upon no account to disturb him next day before twelve o'clock.
person_2ling person_4 sat by the fire , eating his supper.
All at once at his elbow , a little voice spoke -- `` My name is person_2 - wig.
Make me more porridge , please !"
person_2ling person_4 jumped , and looked round.
A perfectly lovely little black Berkshire pig stood smiling beside him.
She had twinkly little screwed up eyes , a double chin , and a short turned up nose.
She pointed at person_2ling 's plate ; he hastily gave it to her , and fled to the meal chest.
`` How did you come here ?"
asked person_2ling person_4.
`` Stolen ,"
replied person_2-wig , with her mouth full.
person_2ling helped himself to meal without scruple.
`` What for ?"
`` Bacon , hams ,"
replied person_2-wig cheerfully.
`` Why on earth do n't you run away ?"
exclaimed the horrified person_2ling.
`` I shall after supper ,"
said person_2 - wig decidedly.
person_2ling person_4 made more porridge and watched her shyly.
She finished a second plate , got up , and looked about her , as though she were going to start.
`` You ca n't go in the dark ,"
said person_2ling person_4.
person_2-wig looked anxious.
`` Do you know your way by daylight ?"
`` I know we can see this little white house from the hills across the river.
Which way are YOU going , Mr.
person_2 ?"
`` To market -- I have two pig papers.
I might take you to the bridge ; if you have no objection ,"
said person_2ling much confused and sitting on the edge of his coppy stool.
person_2-wig 's gratitude was such and she asked so many questions that it became embarrassing to person_2ling person_4.
He was obliged to shut his eyes and pretend to sleep.
She became quiet , and there was a smell of peppermint.
`` I thought you had eaten them ,"
said person_2ling , waking suddenly.
`` Only the corners ,"
replied person_2 - wig , studying the sentiments with much interest by the firelight.
`` I wish you would n't ; he might smell them through the ceiling ,"
said the alarmed person_2ling.
person_2-wig put back the sticky peppermints into her pocket ; `` Sing something ,"
she demanded.
`` I am sorry.
I have tooth - ache ,"
said person_2ling much dismayed.
`` Then I will sing ,"
replied person_2-wig.
`` You will not mind if I say iddy tidditty ? I have forgotten some of the words"
person_2ling person_4 made no objection ; he sat with his eyes half shut , and watched her.
She wagged her head and rocked about , clapping time and singing in a sweet little grunty voice -- `` A funny old mother pig lived in a stye , and three little piggies had she ;"
-LRB- Ti idditty idditty -RRB- umph , umph , umph ! and the little pigs said , wee , wee !"
She sang successfully through three or four verses , only at every verse her head nodded a little lower , and her little twinkly eyes closed up.
`` Those three little piggies grew peaky and lean , and lean they might very well be ; `` For somehow they could n't say umph , umph , umph ! and they would n't say wee , wee , wee ! `` For somehow they could n't say -- person_2-wig 's head bobbed lower and lower , until she rolled over , a little round ball , fast asleep on the hearth-rug.
person_2ling person_4 , on tip-toe , covered her up with an antimacassar.
He was afraid to go to sleep himself ; for the rest of the night he sat listening to the chirping of the crickets and to the snores of Mr.
Piperson overhead.
Early in the morning , between dark and daylight , person_2ling tied up his little bundle and woke up person_2 - wig.
She was excited and half - frightened.
`` But it 's dark ! How can we find our way ?"
`` The cock has crowed ; we must start before the hens come out ; they might shout to Mr.
Piperson"
person_2-wig sat down again , and commenced to cry.
`` Come away person_2-wig ; we can see when we get used to it.
Come ! I can hear them clucking !"
person_2ling had never said shuh ! to a hen in his life , being peaceable ; also he remembered the hamper.
He opened the house door quietly and shut it after them.
There was no garden ; the neighborhood of Mr.
Piperson 's was all scratched up by fowls.
They slipped away hand in hand across an untidy field to the road.
The sun rose while they were crossing the moor , a dazzle of light over the tops of the hills.
The sunshine crept down the slopes into the peaceful green valleys , where little white cottages nestled in gardens and orchards.
`` That 's Westmorland ,"
said person_2-wig.
She dropped person_2ling 's hand and commenced to dance , singing -- `` Tom , Tom , the piper 's son , stole a pig and away he ran ! `` But all the tune that he could play , was ` Over the hills and far away ! '"
`` Come , person_2-wig , we must get to the bridge before folks are stirring"
`` Why do you want to go to market , person_2ling ?"
inquired person_2-wig presently.
`` I do n't want ; I want to grow potatoes"
`` Have a peppermint ?"
said person_2-wig.
person_2ling person_4 refused quite crossly.
`` Does your poor toothy hurt ?"
inquired person_2-wig.
person_2ling person_4 grunted.
person_2-wig ate the peppermint herself and followed the opposite side of the road.
`` person_2-wig ! keep under the wall , there 's a man ploughing"
person_2-wig crossed over , they hurried down hill towards the county boundary.
Suddenly person_2ling stopped ; he heard wheels.
Slowly jogging up the road below them came a tradesman 's cart.
The reins flapped on the horse 's back , the grocer was reading a newspaper.
`` Take that peppermint out of your mouth , person_2-wig , we may have to run.
Do n't say one word.
Leave it to me.
And in sight of the bridge !"
said poor person_2ling , nearly crying.
He began to walk frightfully lame , holding person_2-wig 's arm.
The grocer , intent upon his news - paper , might have passed them , if his horse had not shied and snorted.
He pulled the cart crossways , and held down his whip.
`` Hallo ! Where are YOU going to ?"
-- person_2ling person_4 stared at him vacantly.
`` Are you deaf ? Are you going to market ?"
person_2ling nodded slowly.
`` I thought as much.
It was yesterday.
Show me your licence ?"
person_2ling stared at the off hind shoe of the grocer 's horse which had picked up a stone.
The grocer flicked his whip -- `` Papers ? person_2 licence ?"
person_2ling fumbled in all his pockets , and handed up the papers.
The grocer read them , but still seemed dissatisfied.
`` This here pig is a young lady ; is her name person_1 ?"
person_2-wig opened her mouth and shut it again ; person_2ling coughed asthmatically.
The grocer ran his finger down the advertisement column of his newspaper -- `` Lost , stolen or strayed , 10s.
reward"
He looked suspiciously at person_2-wig.
Then he stood up in the trap , and whistled for the ploughman.
`` You wait here while I drive on and speak to him ,"
said the grocer , gathering up the reins.
He knew that pigs are slippery ; but surely , such a VERY lame pig could never run ! `` Not yet , person_2-wig , he will look back"
The grocer did so ; he saw the two pigs stock-still in the middle of the road.
Then he looked over at his horse 's heels ; it was lame also ; the stone took some time to knock out , after he got to the ploughman.
`` Now , person_2-wig , NOW !"
said person_2ling person_4.
Never did any pigs run as these pigs ran ! They raced and squealed and pelted down the long white hill towards the bridge.
Little fat person_2 - wig 's petticoats fluttered , and her feet went pitter , patter , pitter , as she bounded and jumped.
They ran , and they ran , and they ran down the hill , and across a short cut on level green turf at the bottom , between pebble beds and rushes.
They came to the river , they came to the bridge -- they crossed it hand in hand -- then over the hills and far away she danced with person_2ling person_4 ! The End"
There was a certain merchant who had two children , a boy and a girl ; they were both young , and could not walk.
And two richly-laden ships of his sailed forth to sea with all his property on board , and just as he was expecting to win much money by them , news came that they had gone to the bottom , and now instead of being a rich man he was a poor one , and had nothing left but one field outside the town.
In order to drive his misfortune a little out of his thoughts , he went out to this field , and as he was walking forwards and backwards in it , a little black mannikin stood suddenly by his side , and asked why he was so sad , and what he was taking so much to heart.
Then said the merchant , `` If thou couldst help me I would willingly tell thee"
`` Who knows ?"
replied the black dwarf.
`` Perhaps , I can help thee"
Then the merchant told him that all he possessed had gone to the bottom of the sea , and that he had nothing left but this field.
`` Do not trouble thyself ,"
said the dwarf.
`` If thou wilt promise to give me the first thing that rubs itself against thy leg when thou art at home again , and to bring it here to this place in twelve years ' time , thou shalt have as much money as thou wilt"
The merchant thought , `` What can that be but my dog ?"
and did not remember his little boy , so he said yes , gave the black man a written and sealed promise , and went home.
When he reached home , his little boy was so delighted that he held by a bench , tottered up to him and seized him fast by the legs.
The father was shocked , for he remembered his promise , and now knew what he had pledged himself to do ; as however , he still found no money in his chest , he thought the dwarf had only been jesting.
A month afterwards he went up to the garret , intending to gather together some old tin and to sell it , and saw a great heap of money lying.
Then he was happy again , made purchases , became a greater merchant than before , and felt that this world was well-governed.
In the meantime the boy grew tall , and at the same time sharp and clever.
But the nearer the twelfth year approached the more anxious grew the merchant , so that his distress might be seen in his face.
One day his son asked what ailed him , but the father would not say.
The boy , however , persisted so long , that at last he told him that without being aware of what he was doing , he had promised him to a black dwarf , and had received much money for doing so.
He said likewise that he had set his hand and seal to this , and that now when twelve years had gone by he would have to give him up.
Then said the son , `` Oh , father , do not be uneasy , all will go well.
The black man has no power over me"
The son had himself blessed by the priest , and when the time came , father and son went together to the field , and the son made a circle and placed himself inside it with his father.
Then came the black dwarf and said to the old man , `` Hast thou brought with thee that which thou hast promised me ?"
He was silent , but the son asked , `` What dost thou want here ?"
Then said the black dwarf , `` I have to speak with thy father , and not with thee"
The son replied , `` Thou hast betrayed and misled my father , give back the writing"
`` No ,"
said the black dwarf , `` I will not give up my rights"
They spoke together for a long time after this , but at last they agreed that the son , as he did not belong to the enemy of mankind , nor yet to his father , should seat himself in a small boat , which should lie on water which was flowing away from them , and that the father should push it off with his own foot , and then the son should remain given up to the water.
So he took leave of his father , placed himself in a little boat , and the father had to push it off with his own foot.
The boat capsized so that the keel was uppermost , and the father believed his son was lost , and went home and mourned for him.
The boat , however , did not sink , but floated quietly away , and the boy sat safely inside it , and it floated thus for a long time , until at last it stopped by an unknown shore.
Then he landed and saw a beautiful castle before him , and set out to go to it.
But when he entered it , he found that it was bewitched.
He went through every room , but all were empty until he reached the last , where a snake lay coiled in a ring.
The snake , however , was an enchanted maiden , who rejoiced to see him , and said , `` Hast thou come , oh , my deliverer ? I have already waited twelve years for thee ; this kingdom is bewitched , and thou must set it free"
`` How can I do that ?"
he inquired.
`` To-night come twelve black men , covered with chains who will ask what thou art doing here ; keep silent ; give them no answer , and let them do what they will with thee ; they will torment thee , beat thee , stab thee ; let everything pass , only do not speak ; at twelve o'clock , they must go away again.
On the second night twelve others will come ; on the third , four-and-twenty , who will cut off thy head , but at twelve o'clock their power will be over , and then if thou hast endured all , and hast not spoken the slightest word , I shall be released.
I will come to thee , and will have , in a bottle , some of the water of life.
I will rub thee with that , and then thou wilt come to life again , and be as healthy as before"
Then said he , `` I will gladly set thee free"
And everything happened just as she had said ; the black men could not force a single word from him , and on the third night the snake became a beautiful princess , who came with the water of life and brought him back to life again.
So she threw herself into his arms and kissed him , and there was joy and gladness in the whole castle.
After this their marriage was celebrated , and he was King of the Golden Mountain.
They lived very happily together , and the Queen bore a fine boy.
Eight years had already gone by , when the King bethought him of his father ; his heart was moved , and he wished to visit him.
The Queen , however , would not let him go away , and said , `` I know beforehand that it will cause my unhappiness ;"
but he suffered her to have no rest until she consented.
At their parting she gave him a wishing-ring , and said , `` Take this ring and put it on thy finger , and then thou wilt immediately be transported whithersoever thou wouldst be , only thou must promise me not to use it in wishing me away from this place and with thy father"
That he promised her , put the ring on his finger , and wished himself at home , just outside the town where his father lived.
Instantly he found himself there , and made for the town , but when he came to the gate , the sentries would not let him in , because he wore such strange and yet such rich and magnificent clothing.
Then he went to a hill where a shepherd was watching his sheep , changed clothes with him , put on his old shepherd 's - coat , and then entered the town without hindrance.
When he came to his father , he made himself known to him , but he did not at all believe that the shepherd was his son , and said he certainly had had a son , but that he was dead long ago ; however , as he saw he was a poor , needy shepherd , he would give him something to eat.
Then the shepherd said to his parents , `` I am verily your son.
Do you know of no mark on my body by which you could recognize me ?"
`` Yes ,"
said his mother , `` our son had a raspberry mark under his right arm"
He slipped back his shirt , and they saw the raspberry under his right arm , and no longer doubted that he was their son.
Then he told them that he was King of the Golden Mountain , and a king 's daughter was his wife , and that they had a fine son of seven years old.
Then said the father , `` That is certainly not true ; it is a fine kind of a king who goes about in a ragged shepherd 's - coat"
On this the son fell in a passion , and without thinking of his promise , turned his ring round , and wished both his wife and child with him.
They were there in a second , but the Queen wept , and reproached him , and said that he had broken his word , and had brought misfortune upon her.
He said , `` I have done it thoughtlessly , and not with evil intention ,"
and tried to calm her , and she pretended to believe this ; but she had mischief in her mind.
Then he led her out of the town into the field , and showed her the stream where the little boat had been pushed off , and then he said , `` I am tired ; sit down , I will sleep awhile on thy lap"
And he laid his head on her lap , and fell asleep.
When he was asleep , she first drew the ring from his finger , then she drew away the foot which was under him , leaving only the slipper behind her , and she took her child in her arms , and wished herself back in her own kingdom.
When he awoke , there he lay quite deserted , and his wife and child were gone , and so was the ring from his finger , the slipper only was still there as a token.
`` Home to thy parents thou canst not return ,"
thought he , `` they would say that thou wast a wizard ; thou must be off , and walk on until thou arrivest in thine own kingdom"
So he went away and came at length to a hill by which three giants were standing , disputing with each other because they did not know how to divide their father 's property.
When they saw him passing by , they called to him and said little men had quick wits , and that he was to divide their inheritance for them.
The inheritance , however , consisted of a sword , which had this property that if any one took it in his hand , and said , `` All heads off but mine ,"
every head would lie on the ground ; secondly , of a cloak which made any one who put it on invisible ; thirdly , of a pair of boots which could transport the wearer to any place he wished in a moment.
He said , `` Give me the three things that I may see if they are still in good condition"
They gave him the cloak , and when he had put it on , he was invisible and changed into a fly.
Then he resumed his own form and said , `` The cloak is a good one , now give me the sword"
They said , `` No , we will not give thee that ; if thou were to say , All heads off but mine , ' all our heads would be off , and thou alone wouldst be left with thine"
Nevertheless they gave it to him with the condition that he was only to try it against a tree.
This he did , and the sword cut in two the trunk of a tree as if it had been a blade of straw.
Then he wanted to have the boots likewise , but they said , `` No , we will not give them ; if thou hadst them on thy feet and wert to wish thyself at the top of the hill , we should be left down here with nothing"
`` Oh , no ,"
said he , `` I will not do that"
So they gave him the boots as well.
And now when he had got all these things , he thought of nothing but his wife and his child , and said as though to himself , `` Oh , if I were but on the Golden Mountain ,"
and at the same moment he vanished from the sight of the giants , and thus their inheritance was divided.
When he was near his palace , he heard sounds of joy , and fiddles , and flutes , and the people told him that his wife was celebrating her wedding with another.
Then he fell into a rage , and said , `` False woman , she betrayed and deserted me whilst I was asleep !"
So he put on his cloak , and unseen by all went into the palace.
When he entered the dining-hall a great table was spread with delicious food , and the guests were eating and drinking , and laughing , and jesting.
She sat on a royal seat in the midst of them in splendid apparel , with a crown on her head.
He placed himself behind her , and no one saw him.
When she put a piece of meat on a plate for herself , he took it away and ate it , and when she poured out a glass of wine for herself , he took it away and drank it.
She was always helping herself to something , and yet she never got anything , for plate and glass disappeared immediately.
Then dismayed and ashamed , she arose and went to her chamber and wept , but he followed her there.
She said , `` Has the devil power over me , or did my deliverer never come ?"
Then he struck her in the face , and said , `` Did thy deliverer never come ? It is he who has thee in his power , thou traitor.
Have I deserved this from thee ?"
Then he made himself visible , went into the hall , and cried , `` The wedding is at an end , the true King has returned"
The kings , princes , and councillors who were assembled there , ridiculed and mocked him , but he did not trouble to answer them , and said , `` Will you go away , or not ?"
On this they tried to seize him and pressed upon him , but he drew his sword and said , `` All heads off but mine ,"
and all the heads rolled on the ground , and he alone was master , and once more King of the Golden Mountain"
Once there was a king called King Dantal , who had a great many rupees and soldiers and horses.
He had also an only son called Prince person_1 , who was a handsome boy with white teeth , red lips , blue eyes , red cheeks , red hair , and a white skin.
This boy was very fond of playing with the Wazir 's son , Husain Mahamat , in King Dantal 's garden , which was very large and full of delicious fruits , and flowers , and trees.
They used to take their little knives there and cut the fruits and eat them.
King Dantal had a teacher for them to teach them to read and write.
One day , when they were grown two fine young men , Prince person_1 said to his father , `` Husain Mahamat and I should like to go and hunt"
His father said they might go , so they got ready their horses and all else they wanted for their hunting , and went to the Phalana country , hunting all the way , but they only founds jackals and birds.
The Raja of the Phalana country was called Munsuk Raja , and he had a daughter named person_0 , who was very beautiful ; she had brown eyes and black hair.
One night , some time before Prince person_1 came to her father 's kingdom , as she slept , Khuda sent to her an angel in the form of a man who told her that she should marry Prince person_1 and no one else , and that this was Khuda 's command to her.
When person_0 woke she told her father of the angel 's visit to her as she slept ; but her father paid no attention to her story.
From that time she began repeating , `` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1 ,"
and would say nothing else.
Even as she sat and ate her food she kept saying , `` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1"
Her father used to get quite vexed with her.
`` Who is this person_1 ? who ever heard of this person_1 ?"
he would say.
`` He is the man I am to marry ,"
said person_0.
`` Khuda has ordered me to marry no one but person_1"
And she was half mad.
Meanwhile , person_1 and Husain Mahamat came to hunt in the Phalana country ; and as they were riding about , person_0 came out on her horse to eat the air , and rode behind them.
All the time she kept saying , `` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1"
The prince heard her , and turned round.
`` Who is calling me ?"
he asked.
At this person_0 looked at him , and the moment she saw him she fell deeply in love with him , and she said to herself , `` I am sure that is the Prince person_1 that Khuda says I am to marry"
And she went home to her father and said , `` Father , I wish to marry the prince who has come to your kingdom ; for I know he is the Prince person_1 I am to marry"
`` Very well , you shall have him for your husband ,"
said Munsuk Raja.
`` We will ask him to-morrow"
person_0 consented to wait , although she was very impatient.
As it happened , the prince left the Phalana kingdom that night , and when person_0 heard he was gone , she went quite mad.
She would not listen to a word her father , or her mother , or her servants said to her , but went off into the jungle , and wandered from jungle to jungle , till she got farther and farther away from her own country.
All the time she kept saying , `` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1 ;"
and so she wandered about for twelve years.
At the end of the twelve years she met a fakir -- he was really an angel , but she did not know this -- who asked her , `` Why do you always say , ` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1 ' ?"
She answered , `` I am the daughter of the king of the Phalana country , and I want to find Prince person_1 ; tell me where his kingdom is"
`` I think you will never get there ,"
said the fakir , `` for it is very far from hence , and you have to cross many rivers to reach it"
But person_0 said she did not care ; she must see Prince person_1.
`` Well ,"
said the fakir , `` when you come to the Bhagirathi river you will see a big fish , a Rohu ; and you must get him to carry you to Prince person_1 's country , or you will never reach it"
She went on and on , and at last she came to the Bhagirathi river.
There was a great big fish called the Rohu fish.
It was yawning just as she got up to it , and she instantly jumped down its throat into its stomach.
All the time she kept saying , `` person_1 , person_1"
At this the Rohu fish was greatly alarmed and swam down the river as fast as he could.
By degrees he got tired and went slower , and a crow came and perched on his back , and said `` Caw , caw"
`` Oh , Mr.
Crow ,"
said the poor fish `` do see what is in my stomach that makes such a noise"
`` Very well ,"
said the crow , `` open your mouth wide , and I 'll fly down and see"
So the Rohu opened his jaws and the crow flew down , but he came up again very quickly.
`` You have a Rakshas in your stomach ,"
said the crow , and he flew away.
This news did not comfort the poor Rohu , and he swam on and on till he came to Prince person_1 's country.
There he stopped.
And a jackal came down to the river to drink.
`` Oh , jackal ,"
said the Rohu `` do tell me what I have inside me"
`` How can I tell ?"
said the jackal.
`` I can not see unless I go inside you"
So the Rohu opened his mouth wide , and the jackal jumped down his throat ; but he came up very quickly , looking much frightened and saying , `` You have a Rakshas in your stomach , and if I do n't run away quickly , I am afraid it will eat me"
So off he ran.
After the jackal came an enormous snake.
`` Oh ,"
says the fish , `` do tell me what I have in my stomach , for it rattles about so , and keeps saying , ` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1.
'"
The snake said , `` Open your mouth wide , and I 'll go down and see what it is"
The snake went down : when he returned he said , `` You have a Rakshas in your stomach , but if you will let me cut you open , it will come out of you"
`` If you do that , I shall die ,"
said the Rohu.
`` Oh , no ,"
said the snake , `` you will not , for I will give you a medicine that will make you quite well again"
So the fish agreed , and the snake got a knife and cut him open , and out jumped person_0.
She was now very old.
Twelve years she had wandered about the jungle , and for twelve years she had lived inside her Rohu ; and she was no longer beautiful , and had lost her teeth.
The snake took her on his back and carried her into the country , and there he put her down , and she wandered on and on till she got to person_1 's court-house , where King person_1 was sitting.
There some men heard her crying , `` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1 ,"
and they asked her what she wanted.
`` I want King person_1 ,"
she said.
So they went in and said to Prince person_1 , `` An old woman outside says she wants you"
`` I can not leave this place ,"
said he ; `` send her in here"
They brought her in and the prince asked her what she wanted.
`` I want to marry you ,"
she answered.
`` Twenty-four years ago you came to my father the Phalana Raja 's country , and I wanted to marry you then ; but you went away without marrying me.
Then I went mad , and I have wandered about all these years looking for you"
Prince person_1 said , `` Very good"
`` Pray to Khuda ,"
said person_0 , `` to make us both young again , and then we shall be married"
So the prince prayed to Khuda , and Khuda said to him , `` Touch person_0 's clothes and they will catch fire , and when they are on fire , she and you will become young again"
When he touched person_0 's clothes they caught fire , and she and he became young again.
And there were great feasts , and they were married , and traveled to the Phalana country to see her father and mother.
Now person_0 's father and mother had wept so much for their daughter that they had become quite blind , and her father kept always repeating , `` person_0 , person_0 , person_0"
When person_0 saw their blindness , she prayed to Khuda to restore their sight to them , which he did.
As soon as the father and mother saw person_0 , they hugged her and kissed her , and then they had the wedding all over again amid great rejoicings.
Prince Majnum and person_0 stayed with Munsuk Raja and his wife for three years , and then they returned to King Dantal , and lived happily for some time with him.
They used to go out hunting , and they often went from country to country to eat the air and amuse themselves.
One day Prince person_1 said to person_0 , `` Let us go through this jungle"
`` No , no ,"
said person_0 ; `` if we go through this jungle , some harm will happen to me"
But Prince person_1 laughed , and went into the jungle.
And as they were going through it , Khuda thought , `` I should like to know how much Prince person_1 loves his wife.
Would he be very sorry if she died ? And would he marry another wife ? I will see"
So he sent one of his angels in the form of a fakir into the jungle ; and the angel went up to person_0 , and threw some powder in her face , and instantly she fell to the ground a heap of ashes.
Prince person_1 was in great sorrow and grief when he saw his dear person_0 turned into a little heap of ashes ; and he went straight home to his father , and for a long , long time he would not be comforted.
After a great many years he grew more cheerful and happy , and began to go again into his father 's beautiful garden with Husain Mahamat.
King Dantal wished his son to marry again.
`` I will only have person_0 for my wife ; I will not marry any other woman ,"
said Prince person_1.
`` How can you marry person_0 ? person_0 is dead.
She will never come back to you ,"
said the father.
`` Then I 'll not have any wife at all ,"
said Prince person_1.
Meanwhile person_0 was living in the jungle where her husband had left her a little heap of ashes.
As soon as person_1 had gone , the fakir had taken her ashes and made them quite clean , and then he had mixed clay and water with the ashes , and made the figure of a woman with them , and so person_0 regained her human form , and Khuda sent life into it.
But person_0 had become once more a hideous old woman , with a long , long nose , and teeth like tusks ; just such an old woman , excepting her teeth , as she had been when she came out of the Rohu fish ; and she lived in the jungle , and neither ate nor drank , and she kept on saying , `` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1"
At last the angel who had come as a fakir and thrown the powder at her , said to Khuda , `` Of what use is it that this woman should sit in the jungle crying , crying for ever , ` person_1 , person_1 ; I want person_1 , ' and eating and drinking nothing ? Let me take her to Prince person_1"
`` Well ,"
said Khuda , `` you may do so ; but tell her that she must not speak to person_1 if he is afraid of her when he sees her ; and that if he is afraid when he sees her , she will become a little white dog the next day.
Then she must go to the palace , and she will only regain her human shape when Prince person_1 loves her , feeds her with his own food , and lets her sleep in his bed"
So the angel came to person_0 again as a fakir and carried her to King Dantal 's garden.
`` Now ,"
he said , `` it is Khuda 's command that you stay here till Prince person_1 comes to walk in the garden , and then you may show yourself to him.
But you must not speak to him , if he is afraid of you ; and should he be afraid of you , you will the next day become a little white dog"
He then told her what she must do as a little dog to regain her human form.
person_0 stayed in the garden , hidden in the tall grass , till Prince person_1 and Husain Mahamat came to walk in the garden.
King Dantal was now a very old man , and Husain Mahamat , though he was really only as old as Prince person_1 , looked a great deal older than the prince , who had been made quite young again when he married person_0.
As Prince person_1 and the Wazir 's son walked in the garden , they gathered the fruit as they had done as little children , only they bit the fruit with their teeth ; they did not cut it.
While person_1 was busy eating a fruit in this way , and was talking to Husain Mahamat , he turned towards him and saw person_0 walking behind the Wazir 's son.
`` Oh , look , look !"
he cried , `` see what is following you ; it is a Rakshas or a demon , and I am sure it is going to eat us"
person_0 looked at him beseechingly with all her eyes , and trembled with age and eagerness ; but this only frightened person_1 the more.
`` It is a Rakshas , a Rakshas !"
he cried , and he ran quickly to the palace with the Wazir 's son ; and as they ran away , person_0 disappeared into the jungle.
They ran to King Dantal , and person_1 told him there was a Rakshas or a demon in the garden that had come to eat them.
`` What nonsense ,"
said his father.
`` Fancy two grown men being so frightened by an old ayah or a fakir ! And if it had been a Rakshas , it would not have eaten you"
Indeed King Dantal did not believe person_1 had seen anything at all , till Husain Mahamat said the prince was speaking the exact truth.
They had the garden searched for the terrible old woman , but found nothing , and King Dantal told his son he was very silly to be so much frightened.
However , Prince person_1 would not walk in the garden any more.
The next day person_0 turned into a pretty little dog ; and in this shape she came into the palace , where Prince person_1 soon became very fond of her.
She followed him everywhere , went with him when he was out hunting , and helped him to catch his game , and Prince person_1 fed her with milk , or bread , or anything else he was eating , and at night the little dog slept in his bed.
But one night the little dog disappeared , and in its stead there lay the little old woman who had frightened him so much in the garden ; and now Prince person_1 was quite sure she was a Rakshas , or a demon , or some such horrible thing come to eat him ; and in his terror he cried out , `` What do you want ? Oh , do not eat me ; do not eat me !"
Poor person_0 answered , `` Do n't you know me ? I am your wife person_0 , and I want to marry you.
Do n't you remember how you would go through that jungle , though I begged and begged you not to go , for I told you that harm would happen to me , and then a fakir came and threw powder in my face , and I became a heap of ashes.
But Khuda gave me my life again , and brought me here , after I had stayed a long , long while in the jungle crying for you , and now I am obliged to be a little dog ; but if you will marry me , I shall not be a little dog any more"
person_1 , however , said `` How can I marry an old woman like you ? how can you be person_0 ? I am sure you are a Rakshas or a demon come to eat me ,"
and he was in great terror.
In the morning the old woman had turned into the little dog , and the prince went to his father and told him all that had happened.
`` An old woman ! an old woman ! always an old woman !"
said his father.
`` You do nothing but think of old women.
How can a strong man like you be so easily frightened ?"
However , when he saw that his son was really in great terror , and that he really believed the old woman would came back at night , he advised him to say to her , `` I will marry you if you can make yourself a young girl again.
How can I marry such an old woman as you are ?"
That night as he lay trembling in bed the little old woman lay there in place of the dog , crying `` person_1 , person_1 , I want to marry you.
I have loved you all these long , long years.
When I was in my father 's kingdom a young girl , I knew of you , though you knew nothing of me , and we should have been married then if you had not gone away so suddenly , and for long , long years I followed you"
`` Well ,"
said person_1 , `` if you can make yourself a young girl again , I will marry you"
person_0 said , `` Oh , that is quite easy.
Khuda will make me a young girl again.
In two days ' time you must go into the garden , and there you will see a beautiful fruit.
You must gather it and bring it into your room and cut it open yourself very gently , and you must not open it when your father or anybody else is with you , but when you are quite alone ; for I shall be in the fruit quite naked , without any clothes at all on"
In the morning person_0 took her little dog 's form , and disappeared in the garden.
Prince person_1 told all this to his father , who told him to do all the old woman had bidden him.
In two days ' time he and the Wazir 's son walked in the garden , and there they saw a large , lovely red fruit.
`` Oh !"
said the Prince , `` I wonder shall I find my wife in that fruit"
Husain Mahamat wanted him to gather it and see , but he would not till he had told his father , who said , `` That must be the fruit ; go and gather it"
So person_1 went back and broke the fruit off its stalk ; and he said to his father , `` Come with me to my room while I open it ; I am afraid to open it alone , for perhaps I shall find a Rakshas in it that will eat me"
`` No ,"
said King Dantal ; `` remember , person_0 will be naked ; you must go alone and do not be afraid if , after all , a Rakshas is in the fruit , for I will stay outside the door , and you have only to call me with a loud voice , and I will come to you , so the Rakshas will not be able to eat you"
Then person_1 took the fruit and began to cut it open tremblingly , for he shook with fear ; and when he had cut it , out stepped person_0 , young and far more beautiful than she had ever been.
At the sight of her extreme beauty , person_1 fell backwards fainting on the floor.
person_0 took off his turban and wound it all round herself like a sari -LRB- for she had no clothes at all on -RRB- , and then she called King Dantal , and said to him sadly , `` Why has person_1 fallen down like this ? Why will he not speak to me ? He never used to be afraid of me ; and he has seen me so many , many times"
King Dantal answered , `` It is because you are so beautiful.
You are far , far more beautiful than you ever were.
But he will be very happy directly"
Then the King got some water , and they bathed person_1 's face and gave him some to drink , and he sat up again.
Then person_0 said , `` Why did you faint ? Did you not see I am person_0 ?"
`` Oh !"
said Prince person_1 , `` I see you are person_0 come back to me , but your eyes have grown so wonderfully beautiful , that I fainted when I saw them"
Then they were all very happy , and King Dantal had all the drums in the place beaten , and had all the musical instruments played on , and they made a grand wedding-feast , and gave presents to the servants , and rice and quantities of rupees to the fakirs.
After some time had passed very happily , Prince person_1 and his wife went out to eat the air.
They rode on the same horse , and had only a groom with them.
They came to another kingdom , to a beautiful garden.
`` We must go into that garden and see it ,"
said person_1.
`` No , no ,"
said person_0 ; `` it belongs to a bad Raja , Chumman Basa , a very wicked man"
But person_1 insisted on going in , and in spite of all person_0 could say , he got off the horse to look at the flowers.
Now , as he was looking at the flowers , person_0 saw Chumman Basa coming towards them , and she read in his eyes that he meant to kill her husband and seize her.
So she said to person_1 , `` Come , come , let us go ; do not go near that bad man.
I see in his eyes , and I feel in my heart , that he will kill you to seize me"
`` What nonsense ,"
said person_1.
`` I believe he is a very good Raja.
Anyhow , I am so near to him that I could not get away"
`` Well ,"
said person_0 , `` it is better that you should be killed than I , for if I were to be killed a second time , Khuda would not give me my life again ; but I can bring you to life if you are killed"
Now Chumman Basa had come quite near , and seemed very pleasant , so thought Prince person_1 ; but when he was speaking to person_1 , he drew his scimitar and cut off the prince 's head at one blow.
person_0 sat quite still on her horse , and as the Raja came towards her she said , `` Why did you kill my husband ?"
`` Because I want to take you ,"
he answered.
`` You can not ,"
said person_0.
`` Yes , I can ,"
said the Raja.
`` Take me , then ,"
said person_0 to Chumman Basa ; so he came quite close and put out his hand to take hers to lift her off her horse.
But she put her hand in her pocket and pulled out a tiny knife , only as long as her hand was broad , and this knife unfolded itself in one instant till it was such a length ! and then person_0 made a great sweep with her arm and her long , long knife , and off came Chumman Basa 's head at one touch.
Then person_0 slipped down off her horse , and she went to person_1 's dead body , and she cut her little finger inside her hand straight down from the top of her nail to her palm , and out of this gushed blood like healing medicine.
Then she put person_1 's head on his shoulders , and smeared her healing blood all over the wound , and person_1 woke up and said , `` What a delightful sleep I have had ! Why , I feel as if I had slept for years !"
Then he got up and saw the Raja 's dead body by person_0 's horse.
`` What 's that ?"
said person_1.
`` That is the wicked Raja who killed you to seize me , just as I said he would"
`` Who killed him ?"
asked person_1.
`` I did ,"
answered person_0 , `` and it was I who brought you to life"
`` Do bring the poor man to life if you know how to do so ,"
said person_1.
`` No ,"
said person_0 , `` for he is a wicked man , and will try to do you harm"
But person_1 asked her for such a long time , and so earnestly to bring the wicked Raja to life , that at least she said , `` Jump up on the horse , then , and go far away with the groom"
`` What will you do ,"
said person_1 , `` if I leave you ? I can not leave you"
`` I will take care of myself ,"
said person_0 ; `` but this man is so wicked , he may kill you again if you are near him"
So person_1 got up on the horse , and he and the groom went a long way off and waited for person_0.
Then she set the wicked Raja 's head straight on his shoulders , and she squeezed the wound in her finger till a little blood-medicine came out of it.
Then she smeared this over the place where her knife had passed , and just as she saw the Raja opening his eyes , she began to run , and she ran , and ran so fast , that she outran the Raja , who tried to catch her ; and she sprang up on the horse behind her husband , and they rode so fast , so fast , till they reached King Dantal 's palace.
There Prince person_1 told everything to his father , who was horrified and angry.
`` How lucky for you that you have such a wife ,"
he said.
`` Why did you not do what she told you ? But for her , you would be now dead"
Then he made a great feast out of gratitude for his son 's safety , and gave many , many rupees to the fakirs.
And he made so much of person_0.
He loved her dearly ; he could not do enough for her.
Then he built a splendid palace for her and his son , with a great deal of ground about it , and lovely gardens , and gave them great wealth , and heaps of servants to wait on them.
But he would not allow any but their servants to enter their gardens and palace , and he would not allow person_1 to go out of them , nor person_0 ; `` for ,"
said King Dantal , `` person_0 is so beautiful , that perhaps some one may kill my son to take her away"
There was once upon a time a tailor who had three sons , and only one goat.
But as the goat supported the whole of them with her milk , she was obliged to have good food , and to be taken every day to pasture.
The sons , therefore , did this , in turn.
Once the eldest took her to the churchyard , where the finest herbs were to be found , and let her eat and run about there.
At night when it was time to go home he asked , `` Goat , hast thou had enough ?"
The goat answered , `` I have eaten so much , Not a leaf more I 'll touch , meh ! meh !"
`` Come home , then ,"
said the youth , and took hold of the cord round her neck , led her into the stable and tied her up securely.
`` Well ,"
said the old tailor , `` has the goat had as much food as she ought ?"
`` Oh ,"
answered the son , `` she has eaten so much , not a leaf more she 'll touch"
But the father wished to satisfy himself , and went down to the stable , stroked the dear animal and asked , `` Goat , art thou satisfied ?"
The goat answered , `` Wherewithal should I be satisfied ? Among the graves I leapt about , And found no food , so went without , meh ! meh !"
`` What do I hear ?"
cried the tailor , and ran upstairs and said to the youth , `` Hollo , thou liar : thou saidest the goat had had enough , and hast let her hunger !"
and in his anger he took the yard-measure from the wall , and drove him out with blows.
Next day it was the turn of the second son , who looked out for a place in the fence of the garden , where nothing but good herbs grew , and the goat cleared them all off.
At night when he wanted to go home , he asked , `` Goat , art thou satisfied ?"
The goat answered , `` I have eaten so much , Not a leaf more I 'll touch , meh ! meh !"
`` Come home , then ,"
said the youth , and led her home , and tied her up in the stable.
`` Well ,"
said the old tailor , `` has the goat had as much food as she ought ?"
`` Oh ,"
answered the son , `` she has eaten so much , not a leaf more she 'll touch"
The tailor would not rely on this , but went down to the stable and said , `` Goat , hast thou had enough ?"
The goat answered , `` Wherewithal should I be satisfied ? Among the graves I leapt about , And found no food , so went without , meh ! meh !"
`` The godless wretch !"
cried the tailor , `` to let such a good animal hunger ,"
and he ran up and drove the youth out of doors with the yard-measure.
Now came the turn of the third son , who wanted to do the thing well , and sought out some bushes with the finest leaves , and let the goat devour them.
In the evening when he wanted to go home , he asked , `` Goat , hast thou had enough ?"
The goat answered , `` I have eaten so much , Not a leaf more I 'll touch , meh ! meh !"
`` Come home , then ,"
said the youth , and led her into the stable , and tied her up.
`` Well ,"
said the old tailor , `` has the goat had a proper amount of food ?"
`` She has eaten so much , not a leaf more she 'll touch"
The tailor did not trust to that , but went down and asked , `` Goat , hast thou had enough ?"
The wicked beast answered , `` Wherewithal should I be satisfied ? Among the graves I leapt about , And found no leaves , so went without , meh ! meh !"
`` Oh , the brood of liars !"
cried the tailor , `` each as wicked and forgetful of his duty as the other ! Ye shall no longer make a fool of me ,"
and quite beside himself with anger , he ran upstairs and belabored the poor young fellow so vigorously with the yard-measure that he sprang out of the house.
The old tailor was now alone with his goat.
Next morning he went down into the stable , caressed the goat and said , `` Come , my dear little animal , I will take thee to feed myself"
He took her by the rope and conducted her to green hedges , and amongst milfoil , and whatever else goats like to eat.
`` There thou mayest for once eat to thy heart 's content ,"
said he to her , and let her browse till evening.
Then he asked , `` Goat , art thou satisfied ?"
She replied , `` I have eaten so much , Not a leaf more I 'll touch , meh ! meh !"
`` Come home , then ,"
said the tailor , and led her into the stable , and tied her fast.
When he was going away , he turned round again and said , `` Well , art thou satisfied for once ?"
But the goat did not behave the better to him , and cried , `` Wherewithal should I be satisfied ? Among the graves I leapt about , And found no leaves , so went without , meh ! meh !"
When the tailor heard that , he was shocked , and saw clearly that he had driven away his three sons without cause.
`` Wait , thou ungrateful creature ,"
cried he , `` it is not enough to drive thee forth , I will mark thee so that thou wilt no more dare to show thyself amongst honest tailors"
In great haste he ran upstairs , fetched his razor , lathered the goat 's head , and shaved her as clean as the palm of his hand.
And as the yard-measure would have been too good for her , he brought the horsewhip , and gave her such cuts with it that she ran away in violent haste.
When the tailor was thus left quite alone in his house he fell into great grief , and would gladly have had his sons back again , but no one knew whither they were gone.
The eldest had apprenticed himself to a joiner , and learned industriously and indefatigably , and when the time came for him to go traveling , his master presented him with a little table which had no particular appearance , and was made of common wood , but it had one good property ; if anyone set it out , and said , `` Little table , spread thyself ,"
the good little table was at once covered with a clean little cloth , and a plate was there , and a knife and fork beside it , and dishes with boiled meats and roasted meats , as many as there was room for , and a great glass of red wine shone so that it made the heart glad.
The young journeyman thought , `` With this thou hast enough for thy whole life ,"
and went joyously about the world and never troubled himself at all whether an inn was good or bad , or if anything was to be found in it or not.
When it suited him he did not enter an inn at all , but either on the plain , in a wood , a meadow , or wherever he fancied , he took his little table off his back , set it down before him , and said , `` Cover thyself ,"
and then everything appeared that his heart desired.
At length he took it into his head to go back to his father , whose anger would now be appeased , and who would now willingly receive him with his wishing-table.
It came to pass that on his way home , he came one evening to an inn which was filled with guests.
They bade him welcome , and invited him to sit and eat with them , for otherwise he would have difficulty in getting anything.
`` No ,"
answered the joiner , `` I will not take the few bites out of your mouths ; rather than that , you shall be my guests"
They laughed , and thought he was jesting with them ; he , however , placed his wooden table in the middle of the room , and said , `` Little table , cover thyself"
Instantly it was covered with food , so good that the host could never have procured it , and the smell of it ascended pleasantly to the nostrils of the guests.
`` Fall to , dear friends ,"
said the joiner ; and the guests when they saw that he meant it , did not need to be asked twice , but drew near , pulled out their knives and attacked it valiantly.
And what surprised them the most was that when a dish became empty , a full one instantly took its place of its own accord.
The innkeeper stood in one corner and watched the affair ; he did not at all know what to say , but thought , `` Thou couldst easily find a use for such a cook as that in thy kitchen"
The joiner and his comrades made merry until late into the night ; at length they lay down to sleep , and the young apprentice also went to bed , and set his magic table against the wall.
The host 's thoughts , however , let him have no rest ; it occurred to him that there was a little old table in his lumber-room which looked just like the apprentice 's and he brought it out quite softly , and exchanged it for the wishing-table.
Next morning , the joiner paid for his bed , took up his table , never thinking that he had got a false one , and went his way.
At mid-day he reached his father , who received him with great joy.
`` Well , my dear son , what hast thou learned ?"
said he to him.
`` Father , I have become a joiner"
`` A good trade ,"
replied the old man ; `` but what hast thou brought back with thee from thy apprenticeship ?"
`` Father , the best thing which I have brought back with me is this little table"
The tailor inspected it on all sides and said , `` Thou didst not make a masterpiece when thou mad ` st that ; it is a bad old table"
`` But it is a table which furnishes itself ,"
replied the son.
`` When I set it out , and tell it to cover itself , the most beautiful dishes stand on it , and a wine also , which gladdens the heart.
Just invite all our relations and friends , they shall refresh and enjoy themselves for once , for the table will give them all they require"
When the company was assembled , he put his table in the middle of the room and said , `` Little table , cover thyself ,"
but the little table did not bestir itself , and remained just as bare as any other table which did not understand language.
Then the poor apprentice became aware that his table had been changed , and was ashamed at having to stand there like a liar.
The relations , however , mocked him , and were forced to go home without having eaten or drunk.
The father brought out his patches again , and went on tailoring , but the son went to a master in the craft.
The second son had gone to a miller and had apprenticed himself to him.
When his years were over , the master said , `` As thou hast conducted thyself so well , I give thee an ass of a peculiar kind , which neither draws a cart nor carries a sack"
`` To what use is he put , then ?"
asked the young apprentice.
`` He lets gold drop from his mouth ,"
answered the miller.
`` If thou settest him on a cloth and sayest ` Bricklebrit , ' the good animal will drop gold pieces for thee"
`` That is a fine thing ,"
said the apprentice , and thanked the master , and went out into the world.
When he had need of gold , he had only to say `` Bricklebrit"
to his ass , and it rained gold pieces , and he had nothing to do but pick them off the ground.
Wheresoever he went , the best of everything was good enough for him , and the dearer the better , for he had always a full purse.
When he had looked about the world for some time , he thought , `` Thou must seek out thy father ; if thou goest to him with the gold-ass he will forget his anger , and receive thee well"
It came to pass that he came to the same public-house in which his brother 's table had been exchanged.
He led his ass by the bridle , and the host was about to take the animal from him and tie him up , but the young apprentice said , `` Do n't trouble yourself , I will take my gray horse into the stable , and tie him up myself too , for I must know where he stands"
This struck the host as odd , and he thought that a man who was forced to look after his ass himself , could not have much to spend ; but when the stranger put his hand in his pocket and brought out two gold pieces , and said he was to provide something good for him , the host opened his eyes wide , and ran and sought out the best he could muster.
After dinner the guest asked what he owed.
The host did not see why he should not double the reckoning , and said the apprentice must give two more gold pieces.
He felt in his pocket , but his gold was just at an end.
`` Wait an instant , sir host ,"
said he , `` I will go and fetch some money ;"
but he took the table-cloth with him.
The host could not imagine what this could mean , and being curious , stole after him , and as the guest bolted the stable-door , he peeped through a hole left by a knot in the wood.
The stranger spread out the cloth under the animal and cried , `` Bricklebrit ,"
and immediately the beast began to let gold pieces fall , so that it fairly rained down money on the ground.
`` Eh , my word ,"
said the host , `` ducats are quickly coined there ! A purse like that is not amiss"
The guest paid his score , and went to bed , but in the night the host stole down into the stable , led away the master of the mint , and tied up another ass in his place.
Early next morning the apprentice traveled away with his ass , and thought that he had his gold-ass.
At mid-day he reached his father , who rejoiced to see him again , and gladly took him in.
`` What hast thou made of thyself , my son ?"
asked the old man.
`` A miller ,"
dear father , he answered.
`` What hast thou brought back with thee from thy travels ?"
`` Nothing else but an ass"
`` There are asses enough here ,"
said the father , `` I would rather have had a good goat"
`` Yes ,"
replied the son , `` but it is no common ass , but a gold-ass , when I say ` Bricklebrit , ' the good beast opens its mouth and drops a whole sheetful of gold pieces.
Just summon all our relations hither , and I will make them rich folks"
`` That suits me well ,"
said the tailor , `` for then I shall have no need to torment myself any longer with the needle ,"
and ran out himself and called the relations together.
As soon as they were assembled , the miller bade them make way , spread out his cloth , and brought the ass into the room.
`` Now watch ,"
said he , and cried , `` Bricklebrit ,"
but no gold pieces fell , and it was clear that the animal knew nothing of the art , for every ass does not attain such perfection.
Then the poor miller pulled a long face , saw that he was betrayed , and begged pardon of the relatives , who went home as poor as they came.
There was no help for it , the old man had to betake him to his needle once more , and the youth hired himself to a miller.
The third brother had apprenticed himself to a turner , and as that is skilled labor , he was the longest in learning.
His brothers , however , told him in a letter how badly things had gone with them , and how the innkeeper had cheated them of their beautiful wishing-gifts on the last evening before they reached home.
When the turner had served his time , and had to set out on his travels , as he had conducted himself so well , his master presented him with a sack and said , `` There is a cudgel in it"
`` I can put on the sack ,"
said he , `` and it may be of good service to me , but why should the cudgel be in it ? It only makes it heavy"
`` I will tell thee why ,"
replied the master ; `` if any one has done anything to injure thee , do but say , ` Out of the sack , Cudgel ! ' and the cudgel will leap forth among the people , and play such a dance on their backs that they will not be able to stir or move for a week , and it will not leave off until thou sayest , ` Into the sack , Cudgel ! '"
The apprentice thanked him , and put the sack on his back , and when any one came too near him , and wished to attack him , he said , `` Out of the sack , Cudgel !"
and instantly the cudgel sprang out , and dusted the coat or jacket of one after the other on their backs , and never stopped until it had stripped it off them , and it was done so quickly , that before anyone was aware , it was already his own turn.
In the evening the young turner reached the inn where his brothers had been cheated.
He laid his sack on the table before him , and began to talk of all the wonderful things which he had seen in the world.
`` Yes ,"
said he , `` people may easily find a table which will cover itself , a gold-ass , and things of that kind -- extremely good things which I by no means despise -- but these are nothing in comparison with the treasure which I have won for myself , and am carrying about with me in my sack there"
The inn-keeper pricked up his ears , `` What in the world can that be ?"
thought he ; `` the sack must be filled with nothing but jewels ; I ought to get them cheap too , for all good things go in threes"
When it was time for sleep , the guest stretched himself on the bench , and laid his sack beneath him for a pillow.
When the inn-keeper thought his guest was lying in a sound sleep , he went to him and pushed and pulled quite gently and carefully at the sack to see if he could possibly draw it away and lay another in its place.
The turner had , however , been waiting for this for a long time , and now just as the inn-keeper was about to give a hearty tug , he cried , `` Out of the sack , Cudgel !"
Instantly the little cudgel came forth , and fell on the inn-keeper and gave him a sound thrashing.
The host cried for mercy ; but the louder he cried , so much more heavily the cudgel beat the time on his back , until at length he fell to the ground exhausted.
Then the turner said , `` If thou dost not give back the table which covers itself , and the gold-ass , the dance shall begin afresh"
`` Oh , no ,"
cried the host , quite humbly , `` I will gladly produce everything , only make the accursed kobold creep back into the sack"
Then said the apprentice , `` I will let mercy take the place of justice , but beware of getting into mischief again !"
So he cried , `` Into the sack , Cudgel !"
and let him have rest.
Next morning the turner went home to his father with the wishing-table , and the gold-ass.
The tailor rejoiced when he saw him once more , and asked him likewise what he had learned in foreign parts.
`` Dear father ,"
said he , `` I have become a turner"
`` A skilled trade ,"
said the father.
`` What hast thou brought back with thee from thy travels ?"
`` A precious thing , dear father ,"
replied the son , `` a cudgel in the sack"
`` What !"
cried the father , `` a cudgel ! That 's worth thy trouble , indeed ! From every tree thou can cut thyself one"
`` But not one like this , dear father.
If I say , ` Out of the sack , Cudgel ! ' the cudgel springs out and leads any one who means ill with me a weary dance , and never stops until he lies on the ground and prays for fair weather.
Look you , with this cudgel have I got back the wishing-table and the gold-ass which the thievish inn-keeper took away from my brothers.
Now let them both be sent for , and invite all our kinsmen.
I will give them to eat and to drink , and will fill their pockets with gold into the bargain"
The old tailor would not quite believe , but nevertheless got the relatives together.
Then the turner spread a cloth in the room and led in the gold-ass , and said to his brother , `` Now , dear brother , speak to him"
The miller said , `` Bricklebrit ,"
and instantly the gold pieces fell down on the cloth like a thunder-shower , and the ass did not stop until every one of them had so much that he could carry no more.
-LRB- I can see in thy face that thou also wouldst like to be there.
-RRB- Then the turner brought the little table , and said , `` Now dear brother , speak to it"
And scarcely had the carpenter said , `` Table , cover thyself ,"
than it was spread and amply covered with the most exquisite dishes.
Then such a meal took place as the good tailor had never yet known in his house , and the whole party of kinsmen stayed together till far in the night , and were all merry and glad.
The tailor locked away needle and thread , yard-measure and goose , in a press , and lived with his three sons in joy and splendor.
-LRB- What , however , has become of the goat who was to blame for the tailor driving out his three sons ? That I will tell thee.
She was ashamed that she had a bald head , and ran to a fox 's hole and crept into it.
When the fox came home , he was met by two great eyes shining out of the darkness , and was terrified and ran away.
A bear met him , and as the fox looked quite disturbed , he said , `` What is the matter with thee , brother Fox , why dost thou look like that ?"
`` Ah ,"
answered Redskin , `` a fierce beast is in my cave and stared at me with its fiery eyes"
`` We will soon drive him out ,"
said the bear , and went with him to the cave and looked in , but when he saw the fiery eyes , fear seized on him likewise ; he would have nothing to do with the furious beast , and took to his heels.
The bee met him , and as she saw that he was ill at ease , she said , `` Bear , thou art really pulling a very pitiful face ; what has become of all thy gaiety ?"
`` It is all very well for thee to talk ,"
replied the bear , `` a furious beast with staring eyes is in Redskin 's house , and we ca n't drive him out"
The bee said , `` Bear I pity thee , I am a poor weak creature whom thou wouldst not turn aside to look at , but still , I believe , I can help thee"
She flew into the fox 's cave , lighted on the goat 's smoothly-shorn head , and stung her so violently , that she sprang up , crying `` Meh , meh ,"
and ran forth into the world as if mad , and to this hour no one knows where she has gone.
-RRB-"
`` I want to be something !"
said the eldest of five brothers.
`` I want to do something in the world.
I do n't care how humble my position may be in society , if I only effect some good , for that will really be something.
I 'll make bricks , for they are quite indispensable things , and then I shall truly have done something"
`` But that _ something _ will not be enough !"
quoth the second brother.
`` What you intend doing is just as much as nothing at all.
It is journeyman 's work , and can be done by a machine.
No , I would rather be a bricklayer at once , for that _ is _ something real ; and that 's what I will be.
That brings rank ; as a bricklayer one belongs to a guild , and is a citizen , and has one 's own flag and one 's own house of call.
Yes , and if all goes well , I will keep journeymen.
I shall become a master bricklayer , and my wife will be a master 's wife -- that is what _ I _ call something"
`` That 's nothing at all !"
said the third.
`` That is beyond the pale of the guild , and there are many of those in a town that stand far above the mere master artizan.
You may be an honest man ; but as a ` master ' you will after all only belong to those who are ranked among common men.
I know something better than that.
I will be an architect , and will thus enter into the territory of art and speculation.
I shall be reckoned among those who stand high in point of intellect.
I shall certainly have to serve up from the pickaxe , so to speak ; so I must begin as a carpenter 's apprentice , and must go about as an assistant , in a cap , though I am accustomed to wear a silk hat.
I shall have to fetch beer and spirits for the common journeymen , and they will call me ` thou , ' and that is insulting ! But I shall imagine to myself that the whole thing is only acting , and a kind of masquerade.
To-morrow -- that is to say , when I have served my time -- I shall go my own way , and the others will be nothing to me.
I shall go to the academy , and get instructions in drawing , and shall be called an architect.
_ That 's something ! _ I may get to be called ` sir , ' and even ` worshipful sir , ' or even get a handle at the front or at the back of my name , and shall go on building and building , just as those before me have built.
That will always be a thing to remember , and that 's what I call something !"
`` But I do n't care at all for _ that _ something ,"
said the fourth"
_ I _ wo n't sail in the wake of others , and be a copyist.
I will be a genius ; and will stand up greater than all the rest of you together.
I shall be the creator of a new style , and will give the plan of a building suitable to the climate and the material of the country , for the nationality of the people , for the development of the age -- and an additional storey for my own genius"
`` But supposing the climate and the material are bad ,"
said the fifth , `` that would be a disastrous circumstance , for these two exert a great influence ! Nationality , moreover , may expand itself until it becomes affectation , and the development of the century may run wild with your work , as youth often runs wild.
I quite realize the fact that none of you will be anything real , however much you may believe in yourselves.
But , do what you like , I will not resemble you : I shall keep on the outside of things , and criticise whatever you produce.
To every work there is attached something that is not right -- something that has gone wrong ; and I will ferret that out and find fault with it ; and _ that _ will be doing _ something _ !"
And he kept his word ; and everybody said concerning this fifth brother , `` There is certainly something in him ; he has a good head ; but he does nothing"
And by that very means they thought _ something _ of him ! Now , you see , this is only a little story ; but it will never end so long as the world lasts.
But what became of the five brothers ? Why , this is _ nothing _ , and not _ something _.
Listen , it is a capital story.
The eldest brother , he who manufactured bricks , soon became aware of the fact that every brick , however small it might be , produced for him a little coin , though this coin was only copper ; and many copper pennies laid one upon the other can be changed into a shining dollar ; and wherever one knocks with such a dollar in one 's hand , whether at the baker 's , or the butcher 's , or the tailor 's -- wherever it may be , the door flies open , and the visitor is welcomed , and gets what he wants.
You see that is what comes of bricks.
Some of those belonging to the eldest brother certainly crumbled away , or broke in two , but there was a use even for these.
On the high rampart , the wall that kept out the sea , Margaret , the poor woman , wished to build herself a little house.
All the faulty bricks were given to her , and a few perfect ones into the bargain , for the eldest brother was a good-natured man , though he certainly did not achieve anything beyond the manufacture of bricks.
The poor woman put together the house for herself.
It was little and narrow , and the single window was quite crooked.
The door was too low , and the thatched roof might have shown better workmanship.
But after all it was a shelter ; and from the little house you could look far across the sea , whose waves broke vainly against the protecting rampart on which it was built.
The salt billows spurted their spray over the whole house , which was still standing when he who had given the bricks for its erection had long been dead and buried.
The second brother knew better how to build a wall , for he had served an apprenticeship to it.
When he had served his time and passed his examination he packed his knapsack and sang the journeyman 's song : `` While I am young I 'll wander , from place to place I 'll roam , And everywhere build houses , until I come back home ; And youth will give me courage , and my true love wo n't forget : Hurrah then for a workman 's life ! I 'll be a master yet !"
And he carried his idea into effect.
When he had come home and become a master , he built one house after another in the town.
He built a whole street ; and when the street was finished and became an ornament to the place , the houses built a house for him in return , that was to be his own.
But how can houses build a house ? If you ask them they will not answer you , but people will understand what is meant by the expression , and say , ` certainly , it was the street that built his house for him.
' It was little , and the floor was covered with clay ; but when he danced with his bride upon this clay floor , it seemed to become polished oak ; and from every stone in the wall sprang forth a flower , and the room was gay , as if with the costliest paper-hanger 's work.
It was a pretty house , and in it lived a happy pair.
The flag of the guild fluttered before the house , and the journeymen and apprentices shouted hurrah ! Yes , he certainly was _ something _ ! And at last he died ; and _ that _ was something too.
Now came the architect , the third brother , who had been at first a carpenter 's apprentice , had worn a cap , and served as an errand boy , but had afterwards gone to the academy , and risen to become an architect , and to be called `` honored sir"
Yes , if the houses of the street had built a house for the brother who had become a bricklayer , the street now received its name from the architect , and the handsomest house in it became his property.
_ That _ was something , and _ he _ was something ; and he had a long title before and after his name.
His children were called _ genteel _ children , and when he died his widow was `` a widow of rank ,"
and _ that _ is something ! -- and his name always remained at the corner of the street , and lived on in the mouth of every one as the street 's name -- and _ that _ was something ! Now came the genius of the family , the fourth brother , who wanted to invent something new and original , and an additional storey on the top of it for himself.
But the top storey tumbled down , and he came tumbling down with it , and broke his neck.
Nevertheless he had a splendid funeral , with guild flags and music ; poems in the papers , and flowers strewn on the paving-stones in the street ; and three funeral orations were held over him , each one longer than the last , which would have rejoiced him greatly , for he always liked it when people talked about him ; a monument also was erected over his grave.
It was only one storey high , but still it was _ something _.
Now he was dead like the three other brothers ; but the last , the one who was a critic , outlived them all : and that was quite right , for by this means he got the last word , and it was of great importance to him to have the last word.
The people always said he had a good head of his own.
At last his hour came , and he died , and came to the gates of person_0.
There souls always enter two and two , and he came up with another soul that wanted to get into person_0 too ; and who should this be but old dame Margaret from the house upon the sea wall.
`` I suppose this is done for the sake of contrast , that I and this wretched soul should arrive here at exactly the same time !"
said the critic.
`` Pray who are you , my good woman ?"
he asked.
`` Do you want to get in here too ?"
And the old woman curtsied as well as she could : she thought it must be St.
Peter himself talking to her.
`` I 'm a poor old woman of a very humble family ,"
she replied.
`` I 'm old Margaret that lived in the house on the sea wall"
`` Well , and what have you done ? what have you accomplished down there ?"
`` I have really accomplished nothing at all in the world : nothing that I can plead to have the doors here opened to me.
It would be a real mercy to allow me to slip in through the gate"
`` In what manner did you leave the world ?"
asked he , just for the sake of saying something ; for it was wearisome work standing there and saying nothing.
`` Why , I really do n't know how I left it.
I was sick and miserable during my last years , and could not well bear creeping out of bed , and going out suddenly into the frost and cold.
It was a hard winter , but I have got out of it all now.
For a few days the weather was quite calm , but very cold , as your honor must very well know.
The sea was covered with ice as far as one could look.
All the people from the town walked out upon the ice , and I think they said there was a dance there , and skating.
There was beautiful music and a great feast there too ; the sound came into my poor little room , where I lay ill.
.
And it was towards the evening ; the moon had risen beautifully , but was not yet in its full splendor ; I looked from my bed out over the wide sea , and far off , just where the sea and sky join , a strange white cloud came up.
I lay looking at the cloud , and I saw a little black spot in the middle of it , that grew larger and larger ; and now I knew what it meant , for I am old and experienced , though this token is not often seen.
I knew it , and a shuddering came upon me.
Twice in my life I have seen the same thing ; and I knew there would be an awful tempest , and a spring flood , which would overwhelm the poor people who were now drinking and dancing and rejoicing -- young and old , the whole city had issued forth -- who was to warn them , if no one saw what was coming yonder , or knew , as I did , what it meant ? I was dreadfully alarmed , and felt more lively than I had done for a long time.
I crept out of bed , and got to the window , but could not crawl farther , I was so exhausted.
But I managed to open the window.
I saw the people outside running and jumping about on the ice ; I could see the beautiful flags that waved in the wind.
I heard the boys shouting ` hurrah ! ' and the servant men and maids singing.
There were all kinds of merriment going on.
But the white cloud with the black spot ! I cried out as loud as I could , but no one heard me ; I was too far from the people.
Soon the storm would burst , and the ice would break , and all who were upon it would be lost without remedy.
They could not hear me , and I could not come out to them.
Oh , if I could only bring them ashore ! Then kind Heaven inspired me with the thought of setting fire to my bed , and rather to let the house burn down , than that all those people should perish so miserably.
I succeeded in lighting up a beacon for them.
The red flame blazed up on high , and I escaped out of the door , but fell down exhausted on the threshold , and could get no farther.
The flames rushed out towards me , flickered through the window , and rose high above the roof.
All the people on the ice yonder beheld it , and ran as fast as they could , to give aid to a poor old woman who , they thought , was being burned to death.
Not one remained behind.
I heard them coming ; but I also became aware of a rushing sound in the air ; I heard a rumbling like the sound of heavy artillery ; the spring-flood was lifting the covering of ice , which presently cracked and burst into a thousand fragments.
But the people succeeded in reaching the sea-wall -- I saved them all ! But I fancy I could not bear the cold and the fright , and so I came up here to the gates of person_0.
I am told they are opened to poor creatures like me -- and now I have no house left down upon the rampart : not that I think this will give me admission here"
Then the gates of heaven were opened , and the angel led the old woman in.
She left a straw behind her , a straw that had been in her bed when she set it on fire to save the lives of many ; and this straw had been changed into the purest gold -- into gold that grew and grew , and spread out into beauteous leaves and flowers.
`` Look , this is what the poor woman brought ,"
said the angel to the critic.
`` What dost _ thou _ bring ? I know that thou hast accomplished nothing -- thou hast not made so much as a single brick.
Ah , if thou couldst only return , and effect at least so much as that ! Probably the brick , when thou hadst made it , would not be worth much ; but if it were made with good-will , it would at least be _ something _.
But thou canst not go back , and I can do nothing for thee !"
Then the poor soul , the old dame who had lived on the dyke , put in a petition for him.
She said , `` His brother gave me the bricks and the pieces out of which I built up my house , and that was a great deal for a poor woman like me.
Could not all those bricks and pieces be counted as a single brick in his favor ? It was an act of mercy.
He wants it now ; and is not this the very fountain of mercy ?"
Then the angel said : `` Thy brother , him whom thou hast regarded as the least among you all , he whose honest industry seemed to thee as the most humble , hath given thee this heavenly gift.
Thou shalt not be turned away.
It shall be vouchsafed to thee to stand here without the gate , and to reflect , and repent of thy life down yonder ; but thou shalt not be admitted until thou hast in real earnest accomplished _ something _"
`` I could have said that in better words !"
thought the critic , but he did not find fault aloud ; and for him , after all , that was"
A merchant started his son in life with three hundred rupees , and bade him go to another country and try his luck in trade.
The son took the money and departed.
He had not gone far before he came across some herdsmen quarrelling over a dog , that some of them wished to kill.
`` Please do not kill the dog ,"
pleaded the young and tender-hearted fellow ; `` I will give you one hundred rupees for it"
Then and there , of course , the bargain was concluded , and the foolish fellow took the dog , and continued his journey.
He next met with some people fighting about a cat.
Some of them wanted to kill it , but others not.
`` Oh ! please do not kill it ,"
said he ; `` I will give you one hundred rupees for it"
Of course they at once gave him the cat and took the money.
He went on till he reached a village , where some folk were quarrelling over a snake that had just been caught.
Some of them wished to kill it , but others did not.
`` Please do not kill the snake ,"
said he ; `` I will give you one hundred rupees"
Of course the people agreed , and were highly delighted.
What a fool the fellow was ! What would he do now that all his money was gone ? What could he do except return to his father ? Accordingly he went home.
`` You fool ! You scamp !"
exclaimed his father when he had heard how his son had wasted all the money that had been given to him.
`` Go and live in the stables and repent of your folly.
You shall never again enter my house"
So the young man went and lived in the stables.
His bed was the grass spread for the cattle , and his companions were the dog , the cat , and the snake , which he had purchased so dearly.
These creatures got very fond of him , and would follow him about during the day , and sleep by him at night ; the cat used to sleep at his feet , the dog at his head , and the snake over his body , with its head hanging on one side and its tail on the other.
One day the snake in course of conversation said to its master , `` I am the son of person_0 Indrasha.
One day , when I had come out of the ground to drink the air , some people seized me , and would have slain me had you not most opportunely arrived to my rescue.
I do not know how I shall ever be able to repay you for your great kindness to me.
Would that you knew my father ! How glad he would be to see his son 's preserver !"
`` Where does he live ? I should like to see him , if possible ,"
said the young man.
`` Well said !"
continued the snake.
`` Do you see yonder mountain ? At the bottom of that mountain there is a sacred spring.
If you will come with me and dive into that spring , we shall both reach my father 's country.
Oh ! how glad he will be to see you ! He will wish to reward you , too.
But how can he do that ? However , you may be pleased to accept something at his hand.
If he asks you what you would like , you would , perhaps , do well to reply , ` The ring on your right hand , and the famous pot and spoon which you possess.
' With these in your possession , you would never need anything , for the ring is such that a man has only to speak to it , and immediately a beautiful furnished mansion will be provided for him , while the pot and the spoon will supply him with all manner of the rarest and most delicious foods"
Attended by his three companions the man walked to the well and prepared to jump in , according to the snake 's directions.
`` O master !"
exclaimed the cat and dog , when they saw what he was going to do.
`` What shall we do ? Where shall we go ?"
`` Wait for me here ,"
he replied.
`` I am not going far.
I shall not be long away"
On saying this , he dived into the water and was lost to sight.
`` Now what shall we do ?"
said the dog to the cat.
`` We must remain here ,"
replied the cat , `` as our master ordered.
Do not be anxious about food.
I will go to the people 's houses and get plenty of food for both of us"
And so the cat did , and they both lived very comfortably till their master came again and joined them.
The young man and the snake reached their destination in safety ; and information of their arrival was sent to the person_0.
His highness commanded his son and the stranger to appear before him.
But the snake refused , saying that it could not go to its father till it was released from this stranger , who had saved it from a most terrible death , and whose slave it therefore was.
Then the person_0 went and embraced his son , and saluting the stranger welcomed him to his dominions.
The young man stayed there a few days , during which he received the person_0 's right-hand ring , and the pot and spoon , in recognition of His Highness 's gratitude to him for having delivered his son.
He then returned.
On reaching the top of the spring he found his friends , the dog and the cat , waiting for him.
They told one another all they had experienced since they had last seen each other , and were all very glad.
Afterwards they walked together to the river side , where it was decided to try the powers of the charmed ring and pot and spoon.
The merchant 's son spoke to the ring , and immediately a beautiful house and a lovely princess with golden hair appeared.
He spoke to the pot and spoon , also , and the most delicious dishes of food were provided for them.
So he married the princess , and they lived very happily for several years , until one morning the princess , while arranging her toilet , put the loose hairs into a hollow bit of reed and threw them into the river that flowed along under the window.
The reed floated on the water for many miles , and was at last picked up by the prince of that country , who curiously opened it and saw the golden hair.
On finding it the prince rushed off to the palace , locked himself up in his room , and would not leave it.
He had fallen desperately in love with the woman whose hair he had picked up , and refused to eat , or drink , or sleep , or move , till she was brought to him.
The king , his father , was in great distress about the matter , and did not know what to do.
He feared lest his son should die and leave him without an heir.
At last he determined to seek the counsel of his aunt , who was an ogress.
The old woman consented to help him , and bade him not to be anxious , as she felt certain that she would succeed in getting the beautiful woman for his son 's wife.
She assumed the shape of a bee and went along buzzing , and buzzing , and buzzing.
Her keen sense of smell soon brought her to the beautiful princess , to whom she appeared as an old hag , holding in one hand a stick by way of support.
She introduced herself to the beautiful princess and said , `` I am your aunt , whom you have never seen before , because I left the country just after your birth"
She also embraced and kissed the princess by way of adding force to her words.
The beautiful princess was thoroughly deceived.
She returned the ogress 's embrace , and invited her to come and stay in the house as long as she could , and treated her with such honor and attention , that the ogress thought to herself , `` I shall soon accomplish my errand"
When she had been in the house three days , she began to talk of the charmed ring , and advised her to keep it instead of her husband , because the latter was constantly out shooting and on other such-like expeditions , and might lose it.
Accordingly the beautiful princess asked her husband for the ring , and he readily gave it to her.
The ogress waited another day before she asked to see the precious thing.
Doubting nothing , the beautiful princess complied , when the ogress seized the ring , and reassuming the form of a bee flew away with it to the palace , where the prince was lying nearly on the point of death.
`` Rise up.
Be glad.
Mourn no more ,"
she said to him.
`` The woman for whom you yearn will appear at your summons.
See , here is the charm , whereby you may bring her before you"
The prince was almost mad with joy when he heard these words , and was so desirous of seeing the beautiful princess , that he immediately spoke to the ring , and the house with its fair occupant descended in the midst of the palace garden.
He at once entered the building , and telling the beautiful princess of his intense love , entreated her to be his wife.
Seeing no escape from the difficulty , she consented on the condition that he would wait one month for her.
Meanwhile the merchant 's son had returned from hunting and was terribly distressed not to find his house and wife.
There was the place only , just as he knew it before he had tried the charmed ring which person_0 Indrasha had given him.
He sat down and determined to put an end to himself.
Presently the cat and dog came up.
They had gone away and hidden themselves , when they saw the house and everything disappear.
`` O master !"
they said , `` stay your hand.
Your trial is great , but it can be remedied.
Give us one month , and we will go and try to recover your wife and house"
`` Go ,"
said he , `` and may the great God aid your efforts.
Bring back my wife , and I shall live"
So the cat and dog started off at a run , and did not stop till they reached the place whither their mistress and the house had been taken.
`` We may have some difficulty here ,"
said the cat.
`` Look , the king has taken our master 's wife and house for himself.
You stay here.
I will go to the house and try to see her"
So the dog sat down , and the cat climbed up to the window of the room , wherein the beautiful princess was sitting , and entered.
The princess recognized the cat , and informed it of all that had happened to her since she had left them.
`` But is there no way of escape from the hands of these people ?"
she asked.
`` Yes ,"
replied the cat , `` if you can tell me where the charmed ring is"
`` The ring is in the stomach of the ogress ,"
she said.
`` All right ,"
said the cat , `` I will recover it.
If we once get it , everything is ours"
Then the cat descended the wall of the house , and went and laid down by a rat 's hole and pretended she was dead.
Now at that time a great wedding chanced to be going on among the rat community of that place , and all the rats of the neighborhood were assembled in that one particular mine by which the cat had lain down.
The eldest son of the king of the rats was about to be married.
The cat got to know of this , and at once conceived the idea of seizing the bridegroom and making him render the necessary help.
Consequently , when the procession poured forth from the hole squealing and jumping in honor of the occasion , it immediately spotted the bridegroom and pounced down on him.
`` Oh ! let me go , let me go ,"
cried the terrified rat.
`` Oh ! let him go ,"
squealed all the company.
`` It is his wedding day"
`` No , no ,"
replied the cat.
`` Not unless you do some thing for me.
Listen.
The ogress , who lives in that house with the prince and his wife , has swallowed a ring , which I very much want.
If you will procure it for me , I will allow the rat to depart unharmed.
If you do not , then your prince dies under my feet"
`` Very well , we agree ,"
said they all.
`` Nay , if we do not get the ring for you , devour us all"
This was rather a bold offer.
However , they accomplished the thing.
At midnight , when the ogress was sound asleep , one of the rats went to her bedside , climbed up on her face , and inserted its tail into her throat ; whereupon the ogress coughed violently , and the ring came out and rolled on to the floor.
The rat immediately seized the precious thing and ran off with it to its king , who was very glad , and went at once to the cat and released its son.
As soon as the cat received the ring , she started back with the dog to go and tell their master the good tidings.
All seemed safe now.
They had only to give the ring to him , and he would speak to it , and the house and beautiful princess would again be with them , and everything would go on as happily as before.
`` How glad master will be !"
they thought , and ran as fast as their legs could carry them.
Now , on the way they had to cross a stream.
The dog swam , and the cat sat on its back.
Now the dog was jealous of the cat , so he asked for the ring , and threatened to throw the cat into the water if it did not give it up ; whereupon the cat gave up the ring.
Sorry moment , for the dog at once dropped it , and a fish swallowed it.
`` Oh ! what shall I do ? what shall I do ?"
said the dog.
`` What is done is done ,"
replied the cat.
`` We must try to recover it , and if we do not succeed we had better drown ourselves in this stream.
I have a plan.
You go and kill a small lamb , and bring it here to me"
`` All right ,"
said the dog , and at once ran off.
He soon came back with a dead lamb , and gave it to the cat.
The cat got inside the lamb and lay down , telling the dog to go away a little distance and keep quiet.
Not long after this a nadhar , a bird whose look can break the bones of a fish , came and hovered over the lamb , and eventually pounced down on it to carry it away.
On this the cat came out and jumped on to the bird , and threatened to kill it if it did not recover the lost ring.
This was most readily promised by the nadhar , who immediately flew off to the king of the fishes , and ordered it to make inquiries and to restore the ring.
The king of the fishes did so , and the ring was found and carried back to the cat.
`` Come along now ; I have got the ring ,"
said the cat to the dog.
`` No , I will not ,"
said the dog , `` unless you let me have the ring.
I can carry it as well as you.
Let me have it or I will kill you"
So the cat was obliged to give up the ring.
The careless dog very soon dropped it again.
This time it was picked up and carried off by a kite.
`` See , see , there it goes -- away to that big tree ,"
the cat exclaimed.
`` Oh ! oh ! what have I done ?"
cried the dog.
`` You foolish thing , I knew it would be so ,"
said the cat.
`` But stop your barking , or you will frighten away the bird to some place where we shall not be able to trace it"
The cat waited till it was quite dark , and then climbed the tree , killed the kite , and recovered the ring.
`` Come along ,"
it said to the dog when it reached the ground.
`` We must make haste now.
We have been delayed.
Our master will die from grief and suspense.
Come on"
The dog , now thoroughly ashamed of itself , begged the cat 's pardon for all the trouble it had given.
It was afraid to ask for the ring the third time , so they both reached their sorrowing master in safety and gave him the precious charm.
In a moment his sorrow was turned into joy.
He spoke to the ring , and his beautiful wife and house reappeared , and he and everybody were as happy as ever they could be"
person_1 the sculptor -- you know him ? We all know him : he won the great gold medal , and got a traveling scholarship , went to person_0 , and then came back to his native land.
He was young in those days , and indeed he is young yet , though he is ten years older than he was then.
After his return he visited one of the little provincial towns on the island of Seeland.
The whole town knew who the stranger was , and one of the richest persons gave a party in honor of him , and all who were of any consequence , or possessed any property , were invited.
It was quite an event , and all the town knew of it without its being announced by beat of drum.
Apprentice boys , and children of poor people , and even some of the poor people themselves , stood in front of the house , and looked at the lighted curtain ; and the watchman could fancy that _ he _ was giving a party , so many people were in the streets.
There was quite an air of festivity about , and in the house was festivity also , for Mr.
person_1 the sculptor was there.
He talked , and told anecdotes , and all listened to him with pleasure and a certain kind of awe ; but none felt such respect for him as did the elderly widow of an official : she seemed , so far as Mr.
person_1 was concerned , like a fresh piece of blotting paper , that absorbed all that was spoken , and asked for more.
She was very appreciative , and incredibly ignorant -- a kind of female Caspar Hauser.
`` I should like to see Rome ,"
she said.
`` It must be a lovely city , with all the strangers who are continually arriving there.
Now , do give us a description of Rome.
How does the city look when you come in by the gate ?"
`` I can not very well describe it ,"
replied the sculptor.
`` A great open place , and in the midst of it an obelisk , which is a thousand years old"
`` An organist !"
exclaimed the lady , who had never met with the word _ obelisk _.
A few of the guests could hardly keep from laughing , nor could the sculptor quite keep his countenance ; but the smile that rose to his lips faded away , for he saw , close by the inquisitive dame , a pair of dark blue eyes -- they belonged to the daughter of the speaker , and any one who has such a daughter can not be silly ! The mother was like a fountain of questions , and the daughter , who listened , but never spoke , might pass for the beautiful Naiad of the fountain.
How charming she was ! She was a study for the sculptor to contemplate , but not to converse with ; and , indeed , she did not speak , or only very seldom.
`` Has the Pope a large family ?"
asked the lady.
And the young man considerately answered , as if the question had been better put , `` No , he does not come of a great family"
`` That 's not what I mean ,"
the widow persisted.
`` I mean , has he a wife and children ?"
`` The Pope is not allowed to marry ,"
said the gentleman.
`` I do n't like that ,"
was the lady 's comment.
She certainly might have put more sensible questions ; but if she had not spoken in just the manner she used , would her daughter have leaned so gracefully on her shoulder , looking straight out with the almost mournful smile upon her face ? Then Mr.
person_1 spoke again , and told of the glory of color in person_0 , of the purple hills , the blue Mediterranean , the azure sky of the South , whose brightness and glory was only surpassed in the North by a maiden 's deep blue eyes.
And this he said with a peculiar application ; but she who should have understood his meaning , looked as if she were quite unconscious of it , and that again was charming ! `` person_0 !"
sighed a few of the guests.
`` Oh , to travel !"
sighed others.
`` Charming , charming !"
chorused they all.
`` Yes , if I win a hundred thousand dollars in the lottery ,"
said the head tax-collector 's lady , `` then we will travel.
I and my daughter , and you , Mr.
person_1 ; you must be our guide.
We 'll all three travel together , and one or two good friends more"
And she nodded in such a friendly way at the company , that each one might imagine he or she was the person who was to be taken to person_0.
`` Yes , we will go to person_0 ! but not to those parts where there are robbers -- we 'll keep to Rome , and to the great high roads where one is safe"
And the daughter sighed very quietly.
And how much may lie in one little sigh , or be placed in it ! The young man placed a great deal in it.
The two blue eyes , lit up that evening in honor of him , must conceal treasures -- treasures of the heart and mind -- richer than all the glories of Rome ; and when he left the party that night he had lost _ his _ heart -- lost it completely , to the young lady.
The house of the head tax-collector 's widow was the one which Mr.
person_1 the sculptor most assiduously frequented ; and it was understood that his visits were not intended for that lady , though he and she were the people who kept up the conversation ; he came for the daughter 's sake.
They called her person_2.
Her name was really Calen Malena , and these two names had been contracted into the one name , person_2.
She was beautiful ; but a few said she was rather dull , and probably slept late of a morning.
`` She has been always accustomed to that ,"
her mother said.
`` She 's a beauty , and they always are easily tired.
She sleeps rather late , but that makes her eyes so clear"
What a power lay in the depths of these dark blue eyes ! `` Still waters run deep"
The young man felt the truth of this proverb ; and his heart had sunk into the depths.
He spoke and told his adventures , and the mamma was as simple and eager in her questioning as on the first evening of their meeting.
It was a pleasure to hear person_1 describe anything.
He spoke of Naples , of excursions to Mount Vesuvius , and showed colored prints of several of the eruptions.
And the head tax-collector 's widow had never heard of them before , or taken time to consider the question.
`` Good heavens !"
she exclaimed.
`` So that is a burning mountain ! But is it not dangerous to the people round about ?"
`` Whole cities have been destroyed ,"
he answered ; `` for instance , Pompeii and Herculaneum"
`` But the poor people ! -- And you saw all that with your own eyes ?"
`` No , I did not see any of the eruptions represented in these pictures , but I will show you a picture of my own , of an eruption I saw"
He laid a pencil sketch upon the table , and mamma , who had been absorbed in the contemplation of the highly colored prints , threw a glance at the pale drawing , and cried in astonishment , `` Did you see it throw up white fire ?"
For a moment person_1 's respect for person_2 's mamma suffered a sudden diminution ; but , dazzled by the light that illumined person_2 , he soon found it quite natural that the old lady should have no eye for color.
After all , it was of no consequence , for person_2 's mamma had the best of all things -- namely , person_2 herself.
And person_1 and person_2 were betrothed , which was natural enough , and the betrothal was announced in the little newspaper of the town.
Mamma purchased thirty copies of the paper , that she might cut out the paragraph and send it to friends and acquaintances.
And the betrothed pair were happy , and the mother-in-law elect was happy too ; for it seemed like connecting herself with Thorwaldsen.
`` For you are a continuation of Thorwaldsen ,"
she said to person_1.
And it seemed to person_1 that mamma had in this instance said a clever thing.
person_2 said nothing ; but her eyes shone , her lips smiled , her every movement was graceful : yes , she was beautiful ; that can not be too often repeated.
person_1 undertook to take a bust of person_2 and of his mother-in-law.
They sat to him accordingly , and saw how he moulded and smoothed the soft clay with his fingers.
`` I suppose it 's only on our account ,"
said mamma-in-law , `` that you undertake this commonplace work , and do n't leave your servant to do all that sticking together"
`` It is highly necessary that I should mould the clay myself ,"
he replied.
`` Ah , yes , you are so very polite ,"
retorted mamma ; and person_2 silently pressed his hand , still soiled by the clay.
And he unfolded to both of them the loveliness of nature in creation , pointing out how the living stood higher in the scale than the dead creature , how the plant was developed beyond the mineral , the animal beyond the plant , and man beyond the animal.
He strove to show them how mind and beauty become manifest in outward form , and how it was the sculptor 's task to seize that beauty and to manifest it in his works.
person_2 stood silent , and nodded approbation of the expressed thought , while mamma-in-law made the following confession : `` It 's difficult to follow all that.
But I manage to hobble after you with my thoughts , though they whirl round and round , but I contrive to hold them fast"
And person_2 's beauty held person_1 fast , filled his soul , and seized and mastered him.
Beauty gleamed forth from person_2 's every feature -- gleamed from her eyes , lurked in the corners of her mouth , and in every movement of her fingers.
person_1 the sculptor saw this : he spoke only of her , thought only of her , and the two became one ; and thus it may be said that she spoke much , for he and she were one , and he was always talking of her.
Such was the betrothal ; and now came the wedding , with bridesmaids and wedding presents , all duly mentioned in the wedding speech.
Mamma-in-law had set up Thorwaldsen 's bust at the end of the table , attired in a dressing-gown , for he was to be a guest ; such was her whim.
Songs were sung and cheers were given , for it was a gay wedding , and they were a handsome pair.
`` Pygmalion received his Galatea ,"
so one of the songs said.
-LRB- Illustration : KALA 'S BUST.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Ah , that 's your mythologies ,"
said mamma-in-law.
Next day the youthful pair started for Copenhagen , where they were to live.
Mamma-in-law accompanied them , `` to take care of the commonplace ,"
as she said , meaning the domestic economy.
person_2 was like a doll in a doll 's house , all was so bright , so new , and so fine.
There they sat , all three ; and as for person_1 , to use a proverb that will describe his position , we may say that he sat like the friar in the goose-yard.
The magic of form had enchanted him.
He had looked at the case , and cared not to inquire what the case contained , and that omission brings unhappiness , much unhappiness , into married life ; for the case may be broken , and the gilt may come off ; and then the purchaser may repent his bargain.
In a large party it is very disagreeable to observe that one 's buttons are giving way , and that there are no buckles to fall back upon ; but it is worse still in a great company to become aware that wife and mother-in-law are talking nonsense , and that one can not depend upon oneself for a happy piece of wit to carry off the stupidity of the thing.
The young married pair often sat hand in hand , he speaking and she letting fall a word here and there -- the same melody , the same clear , bell-like sounds.
It was a mental relief when Sophy , one of her friends , came to pay a visit.
Sophy was not pretty.
She was certainly free from bodily deformity , though person_2 always asserted she was a little crooked ; but no eye save a friend 's would have remarked it.
She was a very sensible girl , and it never occurred to her that she might become at all dangerous here.
Her appearance was like a pleasant breath of air in the doll 's house ; and air was certainly required here , as they all acknowledged.
They felt they wanted airing , and consequently they came out into the air , and mamma-in-law and the young couple traveled to person_0.
`` Thank Heaven that we are in our own four walls again ,"
was the exclamation of mother and daughter when they came home , a year after.
`` There 's no pleasure in traveling ,"
said mamma-in-law.
`` To tell the truth , it 's very wearisome -- I beg pardon for saying so.
I found the time hang heavy , though I had my children with me ; and it 's expensive work , traveling , very expensive ! And all those galleries one has to see , and the quantity of things you are obliged to run after ! You must do it for decency 's sake , for you 're sure to be asked when you come back ; and then you 're sure to be told that you 've omitted to see what was best worth seeing.
I got tired at last of those endless Madonnas ; one seemed to be turning a Madonna oneself !"
`` And what bad living you get !"
said person_2.
`` Yes ,"
replied mamma , `` no such thing as an honest meat soup.
It 's miserable trash , their cookery"
And the traveling fatigued person_2 : she was always fatigued , that was the worst of it.
Sophy was taken into the house , where her presence was a real advantage.
Mamma-in-law acknowledged that Sophy understood both housewifery and art , though a knowledge of the latter could not be expected from a person of her limited means ; and she was , moreover , an honest , faithful girl ; she showed that thoroughly while person_2 lay sick -- fading away.
Where the case is everything , the case should be strong , or else all is over.
And all _ was _ over with the case -- person_2 died.
`` She was beautiful ,"
said mamma , `` she was quite different from the antiques , for they are so damaged.
A beauty ought to be perfect , and person_2 was a perfect beauty"
person_1 wept , and mamma wept , and both of them wore mourning.
The black dress suited mamma very well , and she wore mourning the longest.
Moreover , she had to experience another grief in seeing person_1 marry again -- marry Sophy , who had no appearance at all.
`` He 's gone to the very extreme ,"
cried mamma-in-law ; `` he has gone from the most beautiful to the ugliest , and he has forgotten his first wife.
Men have no endurance.
My husband was of a different stamp , and he died before me"
`` Pygmalion received his Galatea ,"
said person_1 : `` yes , that 's what they said in the wedding song.
I had once really fallen in love with the beautiful statue , which awoke to life in my arms ; but the kindred soul which Heaven sends down to us , the angel who can feel and sympathise with and elevate us , I have not found and won till now.
You came , Sophy , not in the glory of outward beauty , though you are fair , fairer than is needful.
The chief thing remains the chief.
You came to teach the sculptor that his work is but clay and dust , only an outward form in a fabric that passes away , and that we must seek the essence , the internal spirit.
Poor person_2 ! ours was but wayfarers ' life.
Yonder , where we shall know each other by sympathy , we shall be half strangers"
`` That was not lovingly spoken ,"
said Sophy , `` not spoken like a Christian.
Yonder , where there is no giving in marriage , but where , as you say , souls attract each other by sympathy ; there where everything beautiful develops itself and is elevated , her soul may acquire such completeness that it may sound more harmoniously than mine ; and you will then once more utter the first raptured exclamation of your love , Beautiful -- most beautiful !"
In the winter time , when deep snow lay on the ground , a poor boy was forced to go out on a sledge to fetch wood.
When he had gathered it together , and packed it , he wished , as he was so frozen with cold , not to go home at once , but to light a fire and warm himself a little.
So he scraped away the snow , and as he was thus clearing the ground , he found a tiny , gold key.
Hereupon he thought that where the key was , the lock must be also , and dug in the ground and found an iron chest.
`` If the key does but fit it !"
thought he ; `` no doubt there are precious things in that little box"
He searched , but no keyhole was there.
At last he discovered one , but so small that it was hardly visible.
He tried it , and the key fitted it exactly.
Then he turned it once round , and now we must wait until he has quite unlocked it and opened the lid , and then we shall learn what wonderful things were lying in that box.
----------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------- Children 's Legends Legend 1 person_4.
Joseph in the Forest person_0 was once on a time a mother who had three daughters , the eldest of whom was rude and wicked , the second much better , although she had her faults , but the youngest was a pious , good child.
The mother was , however , so strange , that it was just the eldest daughter whom she most loved , and she could not bear the youngest.
On this account , she often sent the poor girl out into the great forest in order to get rid of her , for she thought she would lose herself and never come back again.
But the guardian-angel which every good child has , did not forsake her , but always brought her into the right path again.
Once , however , the guardian-angel behaved as if he were not there , and the child could not find her way out of the forest again.
She walked on constantly until evening came , and then she saw a tiny light burning in the distance , ran up to it at once , and came to a little hut.
She knocked , the door opened , and she came to a second door , where she knocked again.
An old man , who had a snow-white beard and looked venerable , opened it for her ; and he was no other than person_4.
Joseph.
He said quite kindly , `` Come , dear child , seat thyself on my little chair by the fire , and warm thyself ; I will fetch thee clear water if thou art thirsty ; but here in the forest , I have nothing for thee to eat but a couple of little roots , which thou must first scrape and boil"
person_4.
Joseph gave her the roots.
The girl scraped them clean , then she brought a piece of pancake and the bread that her mother had given her to take with her ; mixed all together in a pan , and cooked herself a thick soup.
When it was ready , person_4.
Joseph said , `` I am so hungry ; give me some of thy food"
The child was quite willing , and gave him more than she kept for herself , but person_2 's blessing was with her , so that she was satisfied.
When they had eaten , person_4.
Joseph said , `` Now we will go to bed ; I have , however , only one bed , lay thyself in it.
I will lie on the ground on the straw"
`` No ,"
answered she , `` stay in your own bed , the straw is soft enough for me"
person_4.
Joseph , however , took the child in his arms , and carried her into the little bed , and there she said her prayers , and fell asleep.
Next morning when she awoke , she wanted to say good morning to person_4.
Joseph , but she did not see him.
Then she got up and looked for him , but could not find him anywhere ; at last she perceived , behind the door , a bag with money so heavy that she could just carry it , and on it was written that it was for the child who had slept there that night.
On this she took the bag , bounded away with it , and got safely to her mother , and as she gave her mother all the money , she could not help being satisfied with her.
The next day , the second child also took a fancy to go into the forest.
Her mother gave her a much larger piece of pancake and bread.
It happened with her just as with the first child.
In the evening she came to person_4.
Joseph 's little hut , who gave her roots for a thick soup.
When it was ready , he likewise said to her , `` I am so hungry , give me some of thy food"
Then the child said , `` You may have your share"
Afterwards , when person_4.
Joseph offered her his bed and wanted to lie on the straw , she replied , `` No , lie down in the bed , there is plenty of room for both of us"
person_4.
Joseph took her in his arms and put her in the bed , and laid himself on the straw.
In the morning when the child awoke and looked for person_4.
Joseph , he had vanished , but behind the door she found a little sack of money that was about as long as a hand , and on it was written that it was for the child who had slept there last night.
So she took the little bag and ran home with it , and took it to her mother , but she secretly kept two pieces for herself.
The eldest daughter had by this time grown curious , and the next morning also insisted on going out into the forest.
Her mother gave her pancakes with her -- as many as she wanted , and bread and cheese as well.
In the evening she found person_4.
Joseph in his little hut , just as the two others had found him.
When the soup was ready and person_4.
Joseph said , `` I am so hungry , give me some of thy food ,"
the girl answered , `` Wait until I am satisfied ; then if there is anything left thou shalt have it"
She ate , however , nearly the whole of it , and person_4.
Joseph had to scrape the dish.
Afterwards , the good old man offered her his bed , and wanted to lie on the straw.
She took it without making any opposition , laid herself down in the little bed , and left the hard straw to the white-haired man.
Next morning when she awoke , person_4.
Joseph was not to be found , but she did not trouble herself about that.
She looked behind the door for a money-bag.
She fancied something was lying on the ground , but as she could not very well distinguish what it was , she stooped down , and examined it closely , but it remained hanging to her nose , and when she got up again , she saw , to her horror , that it was a second nose , which was hanging fast to her own.
Then she began to scream and howl , but that did no good ; she was forced to see it always on her nose , for it stretched out so far.
Then she ran out and screamed without stopping till she met person_4.
Joseph , at whose feet she fell and begged until , out of pity , he took the nose off her again , and even gave her two farthings.
When she got home , her mother was standing before the door , and asked , `` What hast thou had given to thee ?"
Then she lied and said , `` A great bag of money , but I have lost it on the way"
`` Lost it !"
cried the mother , `` oh , but we will soon find it again ,"
and took her by the hand , and wanted to seek it with her.
At first she began to cry , and did not wish to go , but at last she went.
On the way , however , so many lizards and snakes broke loose on both of them , that they did not know how to save themselves.
At last they stung the wicked child to death , and they stung the mother in the foot , because she had not brought her up better.
Legend 2 The Twelve Apostles Three hundred years before the birth of the person_1 Christ , there lived a mother who had twelve sons , but was so poor and needy that she no longer knew how she was to keep them alive at all.
She prayed to person_2 daily that he would grant that all her sons might be on the earth with the Redeemer who was promised.
When her necessity became still greater she sent one of them after the other out into the world to seek bread for her.
The eldest was called Peter , and he went out and had already walked a long way , a whole day 's journey , when he came into a great forest.
He sought for a way out , but could find none , and went farther and farther astray , and at the same time felt such great hunger that he could scarcely stand.
At length he became so weak that he was forced to lie down , and he believed death to be at hand.
Suddenly there stood beside him a small boy who shone with brightness , and was as beautiful and kind as an angel.
The child smote his little hands together , until Peter was forced to look up and saw him.
Then the child said , `` Why art thou sitting there in such trouble ?"
`` Alas !"
answered Peter , `` I am going about the world seeking bread , that I may yet see the dear Saviour who is promised , that is my greatest desire"
The child said , `` Come with me , and thy wish shall be fulfilled"
He took poor Peter by the hand , and led him between some cliffs to a great cavern.
When they entered it , everything was shining with gold , silver , and crystal , and in the midst of it twelve cradles were standing side by side.
Then said the little angel , `` Lie down in the first , and sleep a while , I will rock thee"
Peter did so , and the angel sang to him and rocked him until he was al seep.
And when he was asleep , the second brother came also , guided thither by his guardian angel , and he was rocked to sleep like the first , and thus came the others , one after the other , until all twelve lay there sleeping in the golden cradles.
They slept , however , three hundred years , until the night when the Saviour of the world was born.
Then they awoke , and were with him on earth , and were called the twelve apostles.
Legend 3 The Rose person_0 was once a poor woman who had two children.
The youngest had to go every day into the forest to fetch wood.
Once when she had gone a long way to seek it , a little child , who was quite strong , came and helped her industriously to pick up the wood and carry it home , and then before a moment had passed the strange child disappeared.
The child told her mother this , but at first she would not believe it.
At length she brought a rose home , and told her mother that the beautiful child had given her this rose , and had told her that when it was in full bloom , he would return.
The mother put the rose in water.
One morning her child could not get out of bed , the mother went to the bed and found her dead , but she lay looking very happy.
On the same morning , the rose was in full bloom.
Legend 4 Poverty and Humility Lead to Heaven person_0 was once a King 's son who went out into the world , and he was full of thought and sad.
He looked at the sky , which was so beautifully pure and blue , then he sighed , and said , `` How well must all be with one up there in heaven !"
Then he saw a poor gray-haired man who was coming along the road towards him , and he spoke to him , and asked , `` How can I get to heaven ?"
The man answered , `` By poverty and humility.
Put on my ragged clothes , wander about the world for seven years , and get to know what misery is , take no money , but if thou art hungry ask compassionate hearts for a bit of bread ; in this way thou wilt reach heaven"
Then the King 's son took off his magnificent coat , and wore in its place the beggar 's garment , went out into the wide world , and suffered great misery.
He took nothing but a little food , said nothing , but prayed to the person_1 to take him into his heaven.
When the seven years were over , he returned to his father 's palace , but no one recognized him.
He said to the servants , `` Go and tell my parents that I have come back again"
But the servants did not believe it , and laughed and left him standing there.
Then said he , `` Go and tell it to my brothers that they may come down , for I should so like to see them again"
The servants would not do that either , but at last one of them went , and told it to the King 's children , but these did not believe it , and did not trouble themselves about it.
Then he wrote a letter to his mother , and described to her all his misery , but he did not say that he was her son.
So , out of pity , the Queen had a place under the stairs assigned to him , and food taken to him daily by two servants.
But one of them was ill-natured and said , `` Why should the beggar have the good food ?"
and kept it for himself , or gave it to the dogs , and took the weak , wasted-away beggar nothing but water ; the other , however , was honest , and took the beggar what was sent to him.
It was little , but he could live on it for a while , and all the time he was quite patient , but he grew continually weaker.
As , however , his illness increased , he desired to receive the last sacrament.
When the host was being elevated down below , all the bells in the town and neighborhood began to ring.
After mass the priest went to the poor man under the stairs , and there he lay dead.
In one hand he had a rose , in the other a lily , and beside him was a paper in which was written his history.
When he was buried , a rose grew on one side of his grave , and a lily on the other.
Legend 5 person_2 's Food person_0 were once upon a time two sisters , one of whom had no children and was rich , and the other had five and was a widow , and so poor that she no longer had food enough to satisfy herself and her children.
In her need , therefore , she went to her sister , and said , `` My children and I are suffering the greatest hunger ; thou art rich , give me a mouthful of bread"
The very rich sister was as hard as a stone , and said , `` I myself have nothing in the house ,"
and drove away the poor creature with harsh words.
After some time the husband of the rich sister came home , and was just going to cut himself a piece of bread , but when he made the first cut into the loaf , out flowed red blood.
When the woman saw that she was terrified and told him what had occurred.
He hurried away to help the widow and her children , but when he entered her room , he found her praying.
She had her two youngest children in her arms , and the three eldest were lying dead.
He offered her food , but she answered , `` For earthly food have we no longer any desire.
person_2 has already satisfied the hunger of three of us , and he will hearken to our supplications likewise"
Scarcely had she uttered these words than the two little ones drew their last breath , whereupon her heart broke , and she sank down dead.
Legend 6 The Three Green Twigs person_0 was once on a time a hermit who lived in a forest at the foot of a mountain , and passed his time in prayer and good works , and every evening he carried , to the glory of person_2 , two pails of water up the mountain.
Many a beast drank of it , and many a plant was refreshed by it , for on the heights above , a strong wind blew continually , which dried the air and the ground , and the wild birds which dread mankind wheel about there , and with their sharp eyes search for a drink.
And because the hermit was so pious , an angel of person_2 , visible to his eyes , went up with him , counted his steps , and when the work was completed , brought him his food , even as the prophet of old was by person_2 's command fed by the raven.
When the hermit in his piety had already reached a great age , it happened that he once saw from afar a poor sinner being taken to the gallows.
He said carelessly to himself , `` person_0 , that one is getting his deserts !"
In the evening , when he was carrying the water up the mountain , the angel who usually accompanied him did not appear , and also brought him no food.
Then he was terrified , and searched his heart , and tried to think how he could have sinned , as person_2 was so angry , but he did not discover it.
Then he neither ate nor drank , threw himself down on the ground , and prayed day and night.
And as he was one day thus bitterly weeping in the forest , he heard a little bird singing beautifully and delightfully , and then he was still more troubled and said , `` How joyously thou singest , the person_1 is not angry with thee.
Ah , if thou couldst but tell me how I can have offended him , that I might do penance , and then my heart also would be glad again"
Then the bird began to speak and said , `` Thou hast done injustice , in that thou hast condemned a poor sinner who was being led to the gallows , and for that the person_1 is angry with thee.
He alone sits in judgement.
However , if thou wilt do penance and repent thy sins , he will forgive thee"
Then the angel stood beside him with a dry branch in his hand and said , `` Thou shalt carry this dry branch until three green twigs sprout out of it , but at night when thou wilt sleep , thou shalt lay it under thy head.
Thou shalt beg thy bread from door to door , and not tarry more than one night in the same house.
That is the penance which the person_1 lays on thee"
Then the hermit took the piece of wood , and went back into the world , which he had not seen for so long.
He ate and drank nothing but what was given him at the doors ; many petitions were , however , not listened to , and many doors remained shut to him , so that he often did not get a crumb of bread.
Once when he had gone from door to door from morning till night , and no one had given him anything , and no one would shelter him for the night , he went forth into a forest , and at last found a cave which someone had made , and an old woman was sitting in it.
Then said he , `` Good woman , keep me with you in your house for this night ;"
but she said , `` No , I dare not , even if I wished , I have three sons who are wicked and wild , if they come home from their robbing expedition , and find you , they would kill us both"
The hermit said , `` Let me stay , they will do no injury either to you or to me"
and the woman was compassionate , and let herself be persuaded.
Then the man lay down beneath the stairs , and put the bit of wood under his head.
When the old woman saw him do that , she asked the reason of it , on which he told her that he carried the bit of wood about with him for a penance , and used it at night for a pillow , and that he had offended the person_1 , because , when he had seen a poor sinner on the way to the gallows , he had said he was getting his deserts.
Then the woman began to weep and cried , `` If the person_1 thus punishes one single word , how will it fare with my sons when they appear before him in judgment ?"
At midnight the robbers came home and blustered and stormed.
They made a fire , and when it had lighted up the cave and they saw a man lying under the stairs , they fell in a rage and cried to their mother , `` Who is the man ? Have we not forbidden any one whatsoever to be taken in ?"
Then said the mother , `` Let him alone , it is a poor sinner who is expiating his crime"
The robbers asked , `` What has he done ?"
`` Old man ,"
cried they , `` tell us thy sins"
The old man raised himself and told them how he , by one single word , had so sinned that person_2 was angry with him , and how he was now expiating this crime.
The robbers were so powerfully touched in their hearts by this story , that they were shocked with their life up to this time , reflected , and began with hearty repentance to do penance for it.
The hermit , after he had converted the three sinners , lay down to sleep again under the stairs.
In the morning , however , they found him dead , and out of the dry wood on which his head lay , three green twigs had grown up on high.
Thus the person_1 had once more received him into his favor.
Legend 7 person_5 's Little Glass Once upon a time a waggoner 's cart which was heavily laden with wine had stuck so fast that in spite of all that he could do , he could not get it to move again.
Then it chanced that person_5 just happened to come by that way , and when she perceived the poor man 's distress , she said to him , `` I am tired and thirsty , give me a glass of wine , and I will set thy cart free for thee"
`` Willingly ,"
answered the waggoner , `` but I have no glass in which I can give thee the wine"
Then person_5 plucked a little white flower with red stripes , called field bindweed , which looks very like a glass , and gave it to the waggoner.
He filled it with wine , and then person_5 drank it , and in the self-same instant the cart was set free , and the waggoner could drive onwards.
The little flower is still always called person_5 's Little Glass.
Legend 8 The Aged Mother In a large town there was an old woman who sat in the evening alone in her room thinking how she had lost first her husband , then both her children , then one by one all her relations , and at length , that very day , her last friend , and now she was quite alone and desolate.
She was very sad at heart , and heaviest of all her losses to her was that of her sons ; and in her pain she blamed person_2 for it.
She was still sitting lost in thought , when all at once she heard the bells ringing for early prayer.
She was surprised that she had thus in her sorrow watched through the whole night , and lighted her lantern and went to church.
It was already lighted up when she arrived , but not as it usually was with wax candles , but with a dim light.
It was also crowded already with people , and all the seats were filled ; and when the old woman got to her usual place it also was not empty , but the whole bench was entirely full.
And when she looked at the people , they were none other than her dead relations who were sitting there in their old-fashioned garments , but with pale faces.
They neither spoke nor sang ; but a soft humming and whispering was heard all over the church.
Then an aunt of hers stood up , stepped forward , and said to the poor old woman , `` Look there beside the altar , and thou wilt see thy sons"
The old woman looked there , and saw her two children , one hanging on the gallows , the other bound to the wheel.
Then said the aunt , `` Behold , so would it have been with them if they had lived , and if the good person_2 had not taken them to himself when they were innocent children"
The old woman went trembling home , and on her knees thanked person_2 for having dealt with her more kindly than she had been able to understand , and on the third day she lay down and died.
Legend 9 The Heavenly Wedding A poor peasant-boy one day heard the priest say in church that whosoever desired to enter into the kingdom of heaven must always go straight onward.
So he set out , and walked continually straight onwards over hill and valley without ever turning aside.
At length his way led him into a great town , and into the midst of a church , where just at that time person_2 's service was being performed.
Now when he beheld all the magnificence of this , he thought he had reached heaven , sat down , and rejoiced with his whole heart.
When the service was over , and the clerk bade him go out , he replied , `` No , I will not go out again , I am glad to be in heaven at last"
So the clerk went to the priest , and told him that there was a child in the church who would not go out again , because he believed he was in heaven.
The priest said , `` If he believes that , we will leave him inside"
So he went to him , and asked if he had any inclination to work.
`` Yes ,"
the little fellow replied , `` I am accustomed to work , but I will not go out of heaven again"
So he stayed in the church , and when he saw how the people came and knelt and prayed to person_5 with the blessed child Jesus which was carved in wood , he thought `` that is the good person_2 ,"
and said , `` Dear person_2 , how thin you are ! The people must certainly let you starve ; but every day I will give you half my dinner"
From this time forth , he every day took half his dinner to the image , and the image began to enjoy the food.
When a few weeks had gone by , people remarked that the image was growing larger and stout and strong , and wondered much.
The priest also could not understand it , but stayed in the church , and followed the little boy about , and then he saw how he shared his food with the Virgin Mary , and how she accepted it.
After some time the boy became ill , and for eight days could not leave his bed ; but as soon as he could get up again , the first thing he did was to take his food to person_5.
The priest followed him , and heard him say , `` Dear person_2 , do not take it amiss that I have not brought you anything for such a long time , for I have been ill and could not get up"
Then the image answered him and said , `` I have seen thy good-will , and that is enough for me.
Next Sunday thou shalt go with me to the wedding"
The boy rejoiced at this , and repeated it to the priest , who begged him to go and ask the image if he , too , might be permitted to go.
`` No ,"
answered the image , `` thou alone"
The priest wished to prepare him first , and give him the holy communion and the child was willing , and next Sunday , when the host came to him , he fell down and died , and was at the eternal wedding.
Legend 10 The Hazel-Branch One afternoon the Christ-child had laid himself in his cradle-bed and had fallen asleep.
Then his mother came to him , looked at him full of gladness , and said , `` Hast thou laid thyself down to sleep , my child ? Sleep sweetly , and in the meantime I will go into the wood , and fetch thee a handful of strawberries , for I know that thou wilt be pleased with them when thou awakest"
In the wood outside , she found a spot with the most beautiful strawberries ; but as she was stooping down to gather one , an adder sprang up out of the grass.
She was alarmed , left the strawberries where they were , and hastened away.
The adder darted after her ; but person_5 , as you can readily understand , knew what it was best to do.
She hid herself behind a hazel-bush , and stood there until the adder had crept away again.
Then she gathered the strawberries , and as she set out on her way home she said , `` As the hazel-bush has been my protection this time , it shall in future protect others also"
person_0fore , from the most remote times , a green hazel-branch has been the safest protection against adders , snakes , and everything else which creeps on the earth"
Once upon a time there lived a King who had seven person_0 , but no children.
This was a great grief to him , especially when he remembered that on his death there would be no heir to inherit the kingdom.
Now it happened one day that a poor old fakir came to the King , and said , `` Your prayers are heard , your desire shall be accomplished , and one of your seven person_0 shall bear a son"
The King 's delight at this promise knew no bounds , and he gave orders for appropriate festivities to be prepared against the coming event throughout the length and breadth of the land.
Meanwhile the seven person_0 lived luxuriously in a splendid palace , attended by hundreds of female slaves , and fed to their hearts ' content on sweetmeats and confectionery.
Now the King was very fond of hunting , and one day , before he started , the seven person_0 sent him a message saying , `` May it please our dearest lord not to hunt towards the north to-day , for we have dreamt bad dreams , and fear lest evil should befall you"
The king , to allay their anxiety , promised regard for their wishes , and set out towards the south ; but as luck would have it , although he hunted diligently , he found no game.
Nor had he more success to the east or west , so that , being a keen sportsman , and determined not to go home empty-handed , he forgot all about his promise , and turned to the north.
Here also he was at first unsuccessful , but just as he had made up his mind to give up for that day , a white hind with golden horns and silver hoofs flashed past him into a thicket.
So quickly did it pass that he scarcely saw it ; nevertheless a burning desire to capture and possess the beautiful strange creature filled his breast.
He instantly ordered his attendants to form a ring round the thicket , and so encircle the hind ; then , gradually narrowing the circle , he pressed forward till he could distinctly see the white hind panting in the midst.
Nearer and nearer he advanced , till , just as he thought to lay hold of the beautiful strange creature , it gave one mighty bound , leapt clean over the King 's head , and fled towards the mountains.
Forgetful of all else , the King , setting spurs to his horse , followed at full speed.
On , on he galloped , leaving his retinue far behind , keeping the white hind in view , never drawing bridle , until , finding himself in a narrow ravine with no outlet , he reined in his steed.
Before him stood a miserable hovel , into which , being tired after his long , unsuccessful chase , he entered to ask for a drink of water.
An old woman , seated in the hut at a spinning-wheel , answered his request by calling to her daughter , and immediately from an inner room came a maiden so lovely and charming , so white-skinned and golden-haired , that the King was transfixed by astonishment at seeing so beautiful a sight in the wretched hovel.
She held the vessel of water to the King 's lips , and as he drank he looked into her eyes , and then it became clear to him that the girl was no other than the white hind with the golden horns and silver feet he had chased so far.
Her beauty bewitched him , so he fell on his knees , begging her to return with him as his bride ; but she only laughed , saying seven person_0 were quite enough even for a King to manage.
However , when he would take no refusal , but implored her to have pity on him , promising her everything she could desire , she replied , `` Give me the eyes of your seven person_0 , and then perhaps I may believe you mean what you say"
The King was so carried away by the glamour of the white hind 's magical beauty , that he went home at once , had the eyes of his seven person_0 taken out , and , after throwing the poor blind creatures into a noisome dungeon whence they could not escape , set off once more for the hovel in the ravine , bearing with him his horrible offering.
But the white hind only laughed cruelly when she saw the fourteen eyes , and threading them as a necklace , flung it round her mother 's neck , saying , `` Wear that , little mother , as a keepsake , whilst I am away in the King 's palace"
Then she went back with the bewitched monarch , as his bride , and he gave her the seven person_0 ' rich clothes and jewels to wear , the seven person_0 ' palace to live in , and the seven person_0 ' slaves to wait upon her ; so that she really had everything even a witch could desire.
Now , very soon after the seven wretched hapless person_0 had their eyes torn out , and were cast into prison , a baby was born to the youngest of the person_0.
It was a handsome boy , but the other person_0 were very jealous that the youngest amongst them should be so fortunate.
But though at first they disliked the handsome little boy , he soon proved so useful to them , that ere long they all looked on him as their son.
Almost as soon as he could walk about he began scraping at the mud wall of their dungeon , and in an incredibly short space of time had made a hole big enough for him to crawl through.
Through this he disappeared , returning in an hour or so laden with sweet-meats , which he divided equally amongst the seven blind person_0.
As he grew older he enlarged the hole , and slipped out two or three times every day to play with the little nobles in the town.
No one knew who the tiny boy was , but everybody liked him , and he was so full of funny tricks and antics , so merry and bright , that he was sure to be rewarded by some girdle-cakes , a handful of parched grain , or some sweetmeats.
All these things he brought home to his seven mothers , as he loved to call the seven blind person_0 , who by his help lived on in their dungeon when all the world thought they had starved to death ages before.
At last , when he was quite a big lad , he one day took his bow and arrow , and went out to seek for game.
Coming by chance past the palace where the white hind lived in wicked splendor and magnificence , he saw some pigeons fluttering round the white marble turrets , and , taking good aim , shot one dead.
It came tumbling past the very window where the white Queen was sitting ; she rose to see what was the matter , and looked out.
At the first glance of the handsome young lad standing there bow in hand , she knew by witchcraft that it was the King 's son.
She nearly died of envy and spite , determining to destroy the lad without delay ; therefore , sending a servant to bring him to her presence , she asked him if he would sell her the pigeon he had just shot.
`` No ,"
replied the sturdy lad , `` the pigeon is for my seven blind mothers , who live in the noisome dungeon , and who would die if I did not bring them food"
`` Poor souls !"
cried the cunning white witch ; `` would you not like to bring them their eyes again ? Give me the pigeon , my dear , and I faithfully promise to show you where to find them"
Hearing this , the lad was delighted beyond measure , and gave up the pigeon at once.
Whereupon the white Queen told him to seek her mother without delay , and ask for the eyes which she wore as a necklace.
`` She will not fail to give them ,"
said the cruel Queen , `` if you show her this token on which I have written what I want done"
So saying , she gave the lad a piece of broken potsherd , with these words inscribed on it -- `` Kill the bearer at once , and sprinkle his blood like water !"
Now , as the son of seven person_0 could not read , he took the fatal message cheerfully , and set off to find the white Queen 's mother.
Whilst he was journeying be passed through a town , where every one of the inhabitants looked so sad , that he could not help asking what was the matter.
They told him it was because the King 's only daughter refused to marry ; so when her father died there would be no heir to the throne.
They greatly feared she must be out of her mind , for though every good-looking young man in the kingdom had been shown to her , she declared she would only marry one who was the son of seven mothers , and who ever heard of such a thing ? The King , in despair , had ordered every man who entered the city gates to be led before the Princess ; so , much to the lad 's impatience , for he was in an immense hurry to find his mothers ' eyes , he was dragged into the presence-chamber.
No sooner did the Princess catch sight of him than she blushed , and , turning to the King , said , `` Dear father , this is my choice !"
Never were such rejoicings as these few words produced.
The inhabitants nearly went wild with joy , but the son of seven person_0 said he would not marry the Princess unless they first let him recover his mothers ' eyes.
When the beautiful bride heard his story , she asked to see the potsherd , for she was very learned and clever.
Seeing the treacherous words , she said nothing , but taking another similar-shaped bit of potsherd , she wrote on it these words -- `` Take care of this lad , giving him all he desires ,"
and returned it to the son of seven person_0 , who , none the wiser , set off on his quest.
Ere long he arrived at the hovel in the ravine where the white witch 's mother , a hideous old creature , grumbled dreadfully on reading the message , especially when the lad asked for the necklace of eyes.
Nevertheless she took it off , and gave it him , saying , `` There are only thirteen of 'em now , for I lost one last week"
The lad , however , was only too glad to get any at all , so he hurried home as fast as he could to his seven mothers , and gave two eyes apiece to the six elder person_0 ; but to the youngest he gave one , saying , `` Dearest little mother ! -- I will be your other eye always !"
After this he set off to marry the Princess , as he had promised , but when passing by the white Queen 's palace he saw some pigeons on the roof.
Drawing his bow , he shot one , and it came fluttering past the window.
The white hind looked out , and lo ! there was the King 's son alive and well.
She cried with hatred and disgust , but sending for the lad , asked him how he had returned so soon , and when she heard how he had brought home the thirteen eyes , and given them to the seven blind person_0 , she could hardly restrain her rage.
Nevertheless she pretended to be charmed with his success , and told him that if he would give her this pigeon also , she would reward him with the Jogi 's wonderful cow , whose milk flows all day long , and makes a pond as big as a kingdom.
The lad , nothing loth , gave her the pigeon ; whereupon , as before , she bade him go ask her mother for the cow , and gave him a potsherd whereon was written -- `` Kill this lad without fail , and sprinkle his blood like water !"
But on the way the son of seven person_0 looked in on the Princess , just to tell her how he came to be delayed , and she , after reading the message on the potsherd , gave him another in its stead ; so that when the lad reached the old hag 's hut and asked her for the Jogi 's cow , she could not refuse , but told the boy how to find it ; and bidding him of all things not to be afraid of the eighteen thousand demons who kept watch and ward over the treasure , told him to be off before she became too angry at her daughter 's foolishness in thus giving away so many good things.
Then the lad did as he had been told bravely.
He journeyed on and on till he came to a milk-white pond , guarded by the eighteen thousand demons.
They were really frightful to behold , but , plucking up courage , he whistled a tune as he walked through them , looking neither to the right nor the left.
By-and-by he came upon the Jogi 's cow , tall , white , and beautiful , while the Jogi himself , who was king of all the demons , sat milking her day and night , and the milk streamed from her udder , filling the milk-white tank.
The Jogi , seeing the lad , called out fiercely , `` What do you want here ?"
Then the lad answered , according to the old hag 's bidding , `` I want your skin , for King Indra is making a new kettle-drum , and says your skin is nice and tough"
Upon this the Jogi began to shiver and shake -LRB- for no Jinn or Jogi dares disobey King Indra 's command -RRB- , and , falling at the lad 's feet , cried , `` If you will spare me I will give you anything I possess , even my beautiful white cow !"
To this the son of seven person_0 , after a little pretended hesitation , agreed , saying that after all it would not be difficult to find a nice tough skin like the Jogi 's elsewhere ; so , driving the wonderful cow before him , he set off homewards.
The seven person_0 were delighted to possess so marvellous an animal , and though they toiled from morning till night making curds and whey , besides selling milk to the confectioners , they could not use half the cow gave , and became richer and richer day by day.
Seeing them so comfortably off , the son of seven person_0 started with a light heart to marry the Princess ; but when passing the white hind 's palace he could not resist sending a bolt at some pigeons which were cooing on the parapet.
One fell dead just beneath the window where the white Queen was sitting.
Looking out , she saw the lad hale and hearty standing before her , and grew whiter than ever with rage and spite.
She sent for him to ask how he had returned so soon , and when she heard how kindly her mother had received him , she very nearly had a fit ; however , she dissembled her feelings as well as she could , and , smiling sweetly , said she was glad to have been able to fulfil her promise , and that if he would give her this third pigeon , she would do yet more for him than she had done before , by giving him the million-fold rice , which ripens in one night.
The lad was of course delighted at the very idea , and , giving up the pigeon , set off on his quest , armed as before with a potsherd , on which was written , `` Do not fail this time.
Kill the lad , and sprinkle his blood like water !"
But when he looked in on his Princess , just to prevent her becoming anxious about him , she asked to see the potsherd as usual , and substituted another , on which was written , `` Yet again give this lad all he requires , for his blood shall be as your blood !"
Now when the old hag saw this , and heard how the lad wanted the million-fold rice which ripens in a single night , she fell into the most furious rage , but being terribly afraid of her daughter , she controlled herself , and bade the boy go and find the field guarded by eighteen millions of demons , warning him on no account to look back after having plucked the tallest spike of rice , which grew in the center.
So the son of seven person_0 set off , and soon came to the field where , guarded by eighteen millions of demons , the million-fold rice grew.
He walked on bravely , looking neither to the right or left , till he reached the center and plucked the tallest ear , but as he turned homewards a thousand sweet voices rose behind him , crying in tenderest accents , `` Pluck me too ! oh , please pluck me too !"
He looked back , and lo ! there was nothing left of him but a little heap of ashes ! Now as time passed by and the lad did not return , the old hag grew uneasy , remembering the message `` his blood shall be as your blood"
; so she set off to see what had happened.
Soon she came to the heap of ashes , and knowing by her arts what it was , she took a little water , and kneading the ashes into a paste , formed it into the likeness of a man ; then , putting a drop of blood from her little finger into its mouth , she blew on it , and instantly the son of seven person_0 started up as well as ever.
`` Do n't you disobey orders again !"
grumbled the old hag , `` or next time I 'll leave you alone.
Now be off , before I repent of my kindness !"
So the son of seven person_0 returned joyfully to his seven mothers , who , by the aid of the million-fold rice , soon became the richest people in the kingdom.
Then they celebrated their son 's marriage to the clever Princess with all imaginable pomp ; but the bride was so clever , she would not rest until she had made known her husband to his father , and punished the wicked white witch.
So she made her husband build a palace exactly like the one in which the seven person_0 had lived , and in which the white witch now dwelt in splendor.
Then , when all was prepared , she bade her husband give a grand feast to the King.
Now the King had heard much of the mysterious son of seven person_0 , and his marvellous wealth , so he gladly accepted the invitation ; but what was his astonishment when on entering the palace he found it was a facsimile of his own in every particular ! And when his host , richly attired , led him straight to the private hall , where on royal thrones sat the seven person_0 , dressed as he had last seen them , he was speechless with surprise , until the Princess , coming forward , threw herself at his feet , and told him the whole story.
Then the King awoke from his enchantment , and his anger rose against the wicked white hind who had bewitched him so long , until he could not contain himself.
So she was put to death , and her grave ploughed over , and after that the seven person_0 returned to their own splendid palace , and everybody lived happily"
There was once a poor peasant who sat in the evening by the hearth and poked the fire , and his wife sat and span.
Then said he , `` How sad it is that we have no children ! With us all is so quiet , and in other houses it is noisy and lively"
`` Yes ,"
replied the wife , and sighed , `` even if we had only one , and it were quite small , and only as big as a thumb , I should be quite satisfied , and we would still love it with all our hearts"
Now it so happened that the woman fell ill , and after seven months gave birth to a child , that was perfect in all its limbs , but no longer than a thumb.
Then said they , `` It is as we wished it to be , and it shall be our dear child ;"
and because of its size , they called it person_0.
They did not let it want for food , but the child did not grow taller , but remained as it had been at the first , nevertheless it looked sensibly out of its eyes , and soon showed itself to be a wise and nimble creature , for everything it did turned out well.
One day the peasant was getting ready to go into the forest to cut wood , when he said as if to himself , `` How I wish that there was any one who would bring the cart to me !"
`` Oh father ,"
cried person_0 , `` I will soon bring the cart , rely on that ; it shall be in the forest at the appointed time"
The man smiled and said , `` How can that be done , thou art far too small to lead the horse by the reins ?"
`` That 's of no consequence , father , if my mother will only harness it , I shall sit in the horse 's ear and call out to him how he is to go"
`` Well ,"
answered the man , `` for once we will try it"
When the time came , the mother harnessed the horse , and placed person_0 in its ear , and then the little creature cried , `` Gee up , gee up !"
Then it went quite properly as if with its master , and the cart went the right way into the forest.
It so happened that just as he was turning a corner , and the little one was crying , `` Gee up ,"
two strange men came towards him.
`` My word !"
said one of them , `` What is this ? There is a cart coming , and a driver is calling to the horse and still he is not to be seen !"
`` That ca n't be right ,"
said the other , `` we will follow the cart and see where it stops"
The cart , however , drove right into the forest , and exactly to the place where the wood had been cut.
When person_0 saw his father , he cried to him , `` Seest thou , father , here I am with the cart ; now take me down"
The father got hold of the horse with his left hand and with the right took his little son out of the ear.
person_0 sat down quite merrily on a straw , but when the two strange men saw him , they did not know what to say for astonishment.
Then one of them took the other aside and said , `` Hark , the little fellow would make our fortune if we exhibited him in a large town , for money.
We will buy him"
They went to the peasant and said , `` Sell us the little man.
He shall be well treated with us"
`` No ,"
replied the father , `` he is the apple of my eye , and all the money in the world can not buy him from me"
person_0 , however , when he heard of the bargain , had crept up the folds of his father 's coat , placed himself on his shoulder , and whispered in his ear , `` Father do give me away , I will soon come back again"
Then the father parted with him to the two men for a handsome bit of money.
`` Where wilt thou sit ?"
they said to him.
`` Oh just set me on the rim of your hat , and then I can walk backwards and forwards and look at the country , and still not fall down"
They did as he wished , and when person_0 had taken leave of his father , they went away with him.
They walked until it was dusk , and then the little fellow said , `` Do take me down , I want to come down"
The man took his hat off , and put the little fellow on the ground by the wayside , and he leapt and crept about a little between the sods , and then he suddenly slipped into a mouse-hole which he had sought out.
`` Good evening , gentlemen , just go home without me ,"
he cried to them , and mocked them.
They ran thither and stuck their sticks into the mouse-hole , but it was all lost labor.
person_0 crept still farther in , and as it soon became quite dark , they were forced to go home with their vexation and their empty purses.
When person_0 saw that they were gone , he crept back out of the subterranean passage.
`` It is so dangerous to walk on the ground in the dark ,"
said he ; `` how easily a neck or a leg is broken !"
Fortunately he knocked against an empty snail-shell.
`` Thank God !"
said he.
`` In that I can pass the night in safety ,"
and got into it.
Not long afterwards , when he was just going to sleep , he heard two men go by , and one of them was saying , `` How shall we contrive to get hold of the rich pastor 's silver and gold ?"
`` I could tell thee that ,"
cried person_0 , interrupting them.
`` What was that ?"
said one of the thieves in fright , `` I heard some one speaking"
They stood still listening , and person_0 spoke again , and said , `` Take me with you , and I 'll help you"
`` But where art thou ?"
`` Just look on the ground , and observe from whence my voice comes ,"
he replied.
There the thieves at length found him , and lifted him up.
`` Thou little imp , how wilt thou help us ?"
they said.
`` A great deal ,"
said he , `` I will creep into the pastor 's room through the iron bars , and will reach out to you whatever you want to have"
`` Come then ,"
they said , `` and we will see what thou canst do"
When they got to the pastor 's house , person_0 crept into the room , but instantly cried out with all his might , `` Do you want to have everything that is here ?"
The thieves were alarmed , and said , `` But do speak softly , so as not to waken any one !"
person_0 however , behaved as if he had not understood this , and cried again , `` What do you want ? Do you want to have everything that is here ?"
The cook , who slept in the next room , heard this and sat up in bed , and listened.
The thieves , however , had in their fright run some distance away , but at last they took courage , and thought , `` The little rascal wants to mock us"
They came back and whispered to him , `` Come , be serious , and reach something out to us"
Then person_0 again cried as loudly as he could , `` I really will give you everything , just put your hands in"
The maid who was listening , heard this quite distinctly , and jumped out of bed and rushed to the door.
The thieves took flight , and ran as if the Wild Huntsman were behind them , but as the maid could not see anything , she went to strike a light.
When she came to the place with it , person_0 , unperceived , betook himself to the granary , and the maid , after she had examined every corner and found nothing , lay down in her bed again , and believed that , after all , she had only been dreaming with open eyes and ears.
person_0 had climbed up among the hay and found a beautiful place to sleep in ; there he intended to rest until day , and then go home again to his parents.
But he had other things to go through.
Truly , there is much affliction and misery in this world ! When day dawned , the maid arose from her bed to feed the cows.
Her first walk was into the barn , where she laid hold of an armful of hay , and precisely that very one in which poor person_0 was lying asleep.
He , however , was sleeping so soundly that he was aware of nothing , and did not awake until he was in the mouth of the cow , who had picked him up with the hay.
`` Ah , heavens !"
cried he , `` how have I got into the fulling mill ?"
but he soon discovered where he was.
Then it was necessary to be careful not to let himself go between the teeth and be dismembered , but he was nevertheless forced to slip down into the stomach with the hay.
`` In this little room the windows are forgotten ,"
said he , `` and no sun shines in , neither will a candle be brought"
His quarters were especially unpleasing to him , and the worst was , more and more hay was always coming in by the door , and the space grew less and less.
Then at length in his anguish , he cried as loud as he could , `` Bring me no more fodder , bring me no more fodder"
The maid was just milking the cow , and when she heard some one speaking , and saw no one , and perceived that it was the same voice that she had heard in the night , she was so terrified that she slipped off her stool , and spilt the milk.
She ran in great haste to her master , and said , `` Oh heavens , pastor , the cow has been speaking !"
`` Thou art mad ,"
replied the pastor ; but he went himself to the byre to see what was there.
Hardly , however had he set his foot inside when person_0 again cried , `` Bring me no more fodder , bring me no more fodder"
Then the pastor himself was alarmed , and thought that an evil spirit had gone into the cow , and ordered her to be killed.
She was killed , but the stomach , in which person_0 was , was thrown on the midden.
person_0 had great difficulty in working his way ; however , he succeeded so far as to get some room , but just as he was going to thrust his head out , a new misfortune occurred.
A hungry wolf ran thither , and swallowed the whole stomach at one gulp.
person_0 did not lose courage.
`` Perhaps ,"
thought he , `` the wolf will listen to what I have got to say ,"
and he called to him from out of his stomach , `` Dear wolf , I know of a magnificent feast for you"
`` Where is it to be had ?"
said the wolf.
`` In such and such a house ; thou must creep into it through the kitchen-sink , and wilt find cakes , and bacon , and sausages , and as much of them as thou canst eat ,"
and he described to him exactly his father 's house.
The wolf did not require to be told this twice , squeezed himself in at night through the sink , and ate to his heart 's content in the larder.
When he had eaten his fill , he wanted to go out again , but he had become so big that he could not go out by the same way.
person_0 had reckoned on this , and now began to make a violent noise in the wolf 's body , and raged and screamed as loudly as he could.
`` Wilt thou be quiet ,"
said the wolf , `` thou wilt waken up the people !"
`` Eh , what ,"
replied the little fellow , `` thou hast eaten thy fill , and I will make merry likewise ,"
and began once more to scream with all his strength.
At last his father and mother were aroused by it , and ran to the room and looked in through the opening in the door.
When they saw that a wolf was inside , they ran away , and the husband fetched his axe , and the wife the scythe.
`` Stay behind ,"
said the man , when they entered the room.
`` When I have given him a blow , if he is not killed by it , thou must cut him down and hew his body to pieces"
Then person_0 heard his parents , voices and cried , `` Dear father , I am here ; I am in the wolf 's body"
Said the father , full of joy , `` Thank God , our dear child has found us again ,"
and bade the woman take away her scythe , that person_0 might not be hurt with it.
After that he raised his arm , and struck the wolf such a blow on his head that he fell down dead , and then they got knives and scissors and cut his body open and drew the little fellow forth.
`` Ah ,"
said the father , `` what sorrow we have gone through for thy sake"
`` Yes father , I have gone about the world a great deal.
Thank heaven , I breathe fresh air again !"
`` Where hast thou been , then ?"
`` Ah , father , I have been in a mouse 's hole , in a cow 's stomach , and then in a wolf 's ; now I will stay with you"
`` And we will not sell thee again , no , not for all the riches in the world ,"
said his parents , and they embraced and kissed their dear person_0.
They gave him to eat and to drink , and had some new clothes made for him , for his own had been spoiled on his journey"
There was once a man who understood all kinds of arts ; he served in war , and behaved well and bravely , but when the war was over he received his dismissal , and three farthings for his expenses on the way.
`` Stop ,"
said he , `` I shall not be content with this.
If I can only meet with the right people , the King will yet have to give me all the treasure of the country"
Then full of anger he went into the forest , and saw a man standing therein who had plucked up six trees as if they were blades of corn.
He said to him , `` Wilt thou be my servant and go with me ?"
`` Yes ,"
he answered , `` but , first , I will take this little bundle of sticks home to my mother ,"
and he took one of the trees , and wrapped it round the five others , lifted the bundle on his back , and carried it away.
Then he returned and went with his master , who said , `` We two ought to be able to get through the world very well ,"
and when they had walked on for a short while they found a huntsman who was kneeling , had shouldered his gun , and was about to fire.
The master said to him , `` Huntsman , what art thou going to shoot ?"
He answered , `` Two miles from here a fly is sitting on the branch of an oak-tree , and I want to shoot its left eye out"
`` Oh , come with me ,"
said the man , `` if we three are together , we certainly ought to be able to get on in the world !"
The huntsman was ready , and went with him , and they came to seven windmills whose sails were turning round with great speed , and yet no wind was blowing either on the right or the left , and no leaf was stirring.
Then said the man , `` I know not what is driving the windmills , not a breath of air is stirring ,"
and he went onwards with his servants , and when they had walked two miles they saw a man sitting on a tree who was shutting one nostril , and blowing out of the other.
`` Good gracious ! what are you doing up there ?"
He answered , `` Two miles from here are seven windmills ; look , I am blowing them till they turn round"
`` Oh , come with me ,"
said the man.
`` If we four are together , we shall carry the whole world before us !"
Then the blower came down and went with him , and after a while they saw a man who was standing on one leg and had taken off the other , and laid it beside him.
Then the master said , `` You have arranged things very comfortably to have a rest"
`` I am a runner ,"
he replied , `` and to stop myself running far too fast , I have taken off one of my legs , for if I run with both , I go quicker than any bird can fly"
`` Oh , go with me.
If we five are together , we shall carry the whole world before us"
So he went with them , and it was not long before they met a man who wore a cap , but had put it quite on one ear.
Then the master said to him , `` Gracefully , gracefully , do n't stick your cap on one ear , you look just like a tom-fool !"
`` I must not wear it otherwise ,"
said he , `` for if I set my hat straight , a terrible frost comes on , and all the birds in the air are frozen , and drop dead on the ground"
`` Oh , come with me ,"
said the master.
`` If we six are together , we can carry the whole world before us"
Now the six came to a town where the King had proclaimed that whosoever ran a race with his daughter and won the victory , should be her husband , but whosoever lost it , must lose his head.
Then the man presented himself and said , `` I will , however , let my servant run for me"
The King replied , `` Then his life also must be staked , so that his head and thine are both set on the victory"
When that was settled and made secure , the man buckled the other leg on the runner , and said to him , `` Now be nimble , and help us to win"
It was fixed that the one who was first to bring some water from a far distant well was to be the victor.
The runner received a pitcher , and the King 's daughter one too , and they began to run at the same time , but in an instant , when the King 's daughter had got a very little way , the people who were looking on could see no more of the runner , and it was just as if the wind had whistled by.
In a short time he reached the well , filled his pitcher with water , and turned back.
Half-way home , however , he was overcome with fatigue , and set his pitcher down , lay down himself , and fell asleep.
He had , however , made a pillow of a horse 's skull which was lying on the ground , in order that he might lie uncomfortably , and soon wake up again.
In the meantime the King 's daughter , who could also run very well quite as well as any ordinary mortal can had reached the well , and was hurrying back with her pitcher full of water , and when she saw the runner lying there asleep , she was glad and said , `` My enemy is delivered over into my hands ,"
emptied his pitcher , and ran on.
And now all would have been lost if by good luck the huntsman had not been standing at the top of the castle , and had not seen everything with his sharp eyes.
Then said he , `` The King 's daughter shall still not prevail against us ;"
and he loaded his gun , and shot so cleverly , that he shot the horse 's skull away from under the runner 's head without hurting him.
Then the runner awoke , leapt up , and saw that his pitcher was empty , and that the King 's daughter was already far in advance.
He did not lose heart , however , but ran back to the well with his pitcher , again drew some water , and was at home again , ten minutes before the King 's daughter.
`` Behold !"
said he , `` I have not bestirred myself till now , it did not deserve to be called running before"
But it pained the King , and still more his daughter , that she should be carried off by a common disbanded soldier like that ; so they took counsel with each other how to get rid of him and his companions.
Then said the King to her , `` I have thought of a way ; do n't be afraid , they shall not come back again"
And he said to them , `` You shall now make merry together , and eat and drink ,"
and he conducted them to a room which had a floor of iron , and the doors also were of iron , and the windows were guarded with iron bars.
There was a table in the room covered with delicious food , and the King said to them , `` Go in , and enjoy yourselves"
And when they were inside , he ordered the doors to be shut and bolted.
Then he sent for the cook , and commanded him to make a fire under the room until the iron became red-hot.
This the cook did , and the six who were sitting at table began to feel quite warm , and they thought the heat was caused by the food ; but as it became still greater , and they wanted to get out , and found that the doors and windows were bolted , they became aware that the King must have an evil intention , and wanted to suffocate them.
`` He shall not succeed , however ,"
said the one with the cap.
`` I will cause a frost to come , before which the fire shall be ashamed , and creep away"
Then he put his cap on straight , and immediately there came such a frost that all heat disappeared , and the food on the dishes began to freeze.
When an hour or two had passed by , and the King believed that they had perished in the heat , he had the doors opened to behold them himself.
But when the doors were opened , all six were standing there , alive and well , and said that they should very much like to get out to warm themselves , for the very food was fast frozen to the dishes with the cold.
Then , full of anger , the King went down to the cook , scolded him , and asked why he had not done what he had been ordered to do.
But the cook replied , `` There is heat enough there , just look yourself"
Then the King saw that a fierce fire was burning under the iron room , and perceived that there was no getting the better of the six in this way.
Again the King considered how to get rid of his unpleasant guests , and caused their chief to be brought and said , `` If thou wilt take gold and renounce my daughter , thou shalt have as much as thou wilt"
`` Oh , yes , Lord King ,"
he answered , `` give me as much as my servant can carry , and I will not ask for your daughter"
On this the King was satisfied , and the other continued , `` In fourteen days , I will come and fetch it"
Thereupon he summoned together all the tailors in the whole kingdom , and they were to sit for fourteen days and sew a sack.
And when it was ready , the strong one who could tear up trees had to take it on his back , and go with it to the King.
Then said the King , `` Who can that strong fellow be who is carrying a bundle of linen on his back that is as big as a house ?"
and he was alarmed and said , `` What a lot of gold he can carry away !"
Then he commanded a ton of gold to be brought ; it took sixteen of his strongest men to carry it , but the strong one snatched it up in one hand , put it in his sack , and said , `` Why do n't you bring more at the same time ? that hardly covers the bottom !"
Then , little by little , the King caused all his treasure to be brought thither , and the strong one pushed it into the sack , and still the sack was not half full with it.
`` Bring more ,"
cried he , `` these few crumbs do n't fill it"
Then seven thousand carts with gold had to be gathered together in the whole kingdom , and the strong one thrust them and the oxen harnessed to them into his sack.
`` I will examine it no longer ,"
said he , `` but will just take what comes , so long as the sack is but full"
When all that was inside , there was still room for a great deal more ; Then he said , `` I will just make an end of the thing ; people do sometimes tie up a sack even when it is not full"
So he took it on his back , and went away with his comrades.
When the King now saw how one single man was carrying away the entire wealth of the country , he became enraged , and bade his horsemen mount and pursue the six , and ordered them to take the sack away from the strong one.
Two regiments speedily overtook the six , and called out , `` You are prisoners , put down the sack with the gold , or you will all be cut to pieces !"
`` What say you ?"
cried the blower , `` that we are prisoners ! Rather than that should happen , all of you shall dance about in the air"
And he closed one nostril , and with the other blew on the two regiments.
Then they were driven away from each other , and carried into the blue sky over all the mountains one here , the other there.
One sergeant cried for mercy ; he had nine wounds , and was a brave fellow who did not deserve ill treatment.
The blower stopped a little so that he came down without injury , and then the blower said to him , `` Now go home to thy King , and tell him he had better send some more horsemen , and I will blow them all into the air"
When the King was informed of this he said , `` Let the rascals go.
They have the best of it"
Then the six conveyed the riches home , divided it amongst them , and lived in content until their death"
The emperor 's favorite horse was shod with gold.
It had a golden shoe on each of its feet.
And why was this ? He was a beautiful creature , with delicate legs , bright intelligent eyes , and a mane that hung down over his neck like a veil.
He had carried his master through the fire and smoke of battle , and heard the bullets whistling around him , had kicked , bitten , and taken part in the fight when the enemy advanced , and had sprung with his master on his back over the fallen foe , and had saved the crown of red gold , and the life of the emperor , which was more valuable than the red gold ; and that is why the emperor 's horse had golden shoes.
And a beetle came creeping forth.
`` First the great ones ,"
said he , `` and then the little ones ; but greatness is not the only thing that does it"
And so saying , he stretched out his thin legs.
`` And pray what do you want ?"
asked the smith.
`` Golden shoes , to be sure ,"
replied the beetle.
`` Why , you must be out of your senses ,"
cried the smith.
`` Do you want to have golden shoes too ?"
`` Golden shoes ? certainly ,"
replied the beetle.
`` Am I not just as good as that big creature yonder , that is waited on , and brushed , and has meat and drink put before him ? Do n't I belong to the imperial stable ?"
`` But _ why _ is the horse to have golden shoes ? Do n't you understand that ?"
asked the smith.
`` Understand ? I understand that it is a personal slight offered to myself ,"
cried the beetle.
`` It is done to annoy me , and therefore I am going into the world to seek my fortune"
`` Go along !"
said the smith.
`` You 're a rude fellow !"
cried the beetle ; and then he went out of the stable , flew a little way , and soon afterwards found himself in a beautiful flower garden , all fragrant with roses and lavender.
`` Is it not beautiful here ?"
asked one of the little lady-birds that flew about , with their delicate wings and their red-and-black shields on their backs.
`` How sweet it is here -- how beautiful it is !"
`` I 'm accustomed to better things ,"
said the beetle.
`` Do you call _ this _ beautiful ? Why , there is not so much as a dung-heap"
Then he went on , under the shadow of a great stack , and found a caterpillar crawling along.
`` How beautiful the world is !"
said the caterpillar : `` the sun is so warm , and everything so enjoyable ! And when I go to sleep , and die , as they call it , I shall wake up as a butterfly , with beautiful wings to fly with"
`` How conceited you are !"
exclaimed the stag-beetle.
`` Fly about as a butterfly , indeed ! I 've come out of the stable of the emperor , and no one there , not even the emperor 's favorite horse -- that by the way wears my cast-off golden shoes -- has any such idea.
To have wings to fly ! why , we can fly now ;"
and he spread his wings and flew away.
`` I do n't want to be annoyed , and yet I am annoyed ,"
he said , as he flew off.
Soon afterwards he fell down upon a great lawn.
For awhile he lay there and feigned slumber ; at last he fell asleep in earnest.
Suddenly a heavy shower of rain came falling from the clouds.
The beetle woke up at the noise , and wanted to escape into the earth , but could not.
He was tumbled over and over ; sometimes he was swimming on his stomach , sometimes on his back , and as for flying , that was out of the question ; he doubted whether he should escape from the place with his life.
He therefore remained lying where he was.
When the weather had moderated a little , and the beetle had rubbed the water out of his eyes , he saw something gleaming.
It was linen that had been placed there to bleach.
He managed to make his way up to it , and crept into a fold of the damp linen.
Certainly the place was not so comfortable to lie in as the warm stable ; but there was no better to be had , and therefore he remained lying there for a whole day and a whole night , and the rain kept on during all the time.
Towards morning he crept forth : he was very much out of temper about the climate.
On the linen two frogs were sitting.
Their bright eyes absolutely gleamed with pleasure.
`` Wonderful weather this !"
one of them cried.
`` How refreshing ! And the linen keeps the water together so beautifully.
My hind legs seem to quiver as if I were going to swim"
`` I should like to know ,"
said the second , `` if the swallow , who flies so far round , in her many journeys in foreign lands ever meets with a better climate than this.
What delicious dampness ! It is really as if one were lying in a wet ditch.
Whoever does not rejoice in this , certainly does not love his fatherland"
`` Have you been in the emperor 's stable ?"
asked the beetle : `` there the dampness is warm and refreshing.
That 's the climate for me ; but I can not take it with me on my journey.
Is there never a muck-heap , here in the garden , where a person of rank , like myself , can feel himself at home , and take up his quarters ?"
But the frogs either did not or would not understand him.
`` I never ask a question twice !"
said the beetle , after he had already asked this one three times without receiving any answer.
Then he went a little farther , and stumbled against a fragment of pottery , that certainly ought not to have been lying there ; but as it was once there , it gave a good shelter against wind and weather.
Here dwelt several families of earwigs ; and these did not require much , only sociality.
The female members of the community were full of the purest maternal affection , and accordingly each one considered her own child the most beautiful and cleverest of all.
`` Our son has engaged himself ,"
said one mother.
`` Dear , innocent boy ! His greatest hope is that he may creep one day into a clergyman 's ear.
It 's very artless and loveable , that ; and being engaged will keep him steady.
What joy for a mother !"
`` Our son ,"
said another mother , `` had scarcely crept out of the egg , when he was already off on his travels.
He 's all life and spirits ; he 'll run his horns off ! What joy that is for a mother ! Is it not so , Mr.
Beetle ?"
for she knew the stranger by his horny coat.
`` You are both quite right ,"
said he ; so they begged him to walk in ; that is to say , to come as far as he could under the bit of pottery.
`` Now , you also see _ my _ little earwig ,"
observed a third mother and a fourth ; `` they are lovely little things , and highly amusing.
They are never ill-behaved , except when they are uncomfortable in their inside ; but , unfortunately , one is very subject to that at their age"
Thus each mother spoke of her baby ; and the babies talked among themselves , and made use of the little nippers they have in their tails to nip the beard of the beetle.
`` Yes , they are always busy about something , the little rogues !"
said the mothers ; and they quite beamed with maternal pride ; but the beetle felt bored by that , and therefore he inquired how far it was to the nearest muck-heap.
`` That is quite out in the big world , on the other side of the ditch ,"
answered an earwig.
`` I hope none of my children will go so far , for it would be the death of me"
`` But I shall try to get so far ,"
said the beetle ; and he went off without taking formal leave ; for that is considered the polite thing to do.
And by the ditch he met several friends ; beetles , all of them.
`` Here we live ,"
they said.
`` We are very comfortable here.
Might we ask you to step down into this rich mud ? You must be fatigued after your journey"
`` Certainly ,"
replied the beetle.
`` I have been exposed to the rain , and have had to lie upon linen , and cleanliness is a thing that greatly exhausts me.
I have also pains in one of my wings , from standing in a draught under a fragment of pottery.
It is really quite refreshing to be among one 's companions once more"
`` Perhaps you come from some muck-heap ?"
observed the oldest of them.
`` Indeed , I come from a much higher place ,"
replied the beetle.
`` I came from the emperor 's stable , where I was born with golden shoes on my feet.
I am traveling on a secret embassy.
You must not ask me any questions , for I ca n't betray my secret"
With this the beetle stepped down into the rich mud.
There sat three young maiden beetles ; and they tittered , because they did not know what to say.
`` Not one of them is engaged yet ,"
said their mother ; and the beetle maidens tittered again , this time from embarrassment.
`` I have never seen greater beauties in the royal stables ,"
exclaimed the beetle , who was now resting himself.
`` Do n't spoil my girls ,"
said the mother ; `` and do n't talk to them , please , unless you have serious intentions.
But of course your intentions are serious , and therefore I give you my blessing"
`` Hurrah !"
cried all the other beetles together ; and our friend was engaged.
Immediately after the betrothal came the marriage , for there was no reason for delay.
The following day passed very pleasantly , and the next in tolerable comfort ; but on the third it was time to think of food for the wife , and perhaps also for children.
`` I have allowed myself to be taken in ,"
said our beetle to himself.
`` And now there 's nothing for it but to take _ them _ in , in turn"
So said , so done.
Away he went , and he stayed away all day , and stayed away all night ; and his wife sat there , a forsaken widow.
`` Oh ,"
said the other beetles , `` this fellow whom we received into our family is nothing more than a thorough vagabond.
He has gone away , and has left his wife a burden upon our hands"
-LRB- Illustration : THE SCHOLARS FIND THE BEETLE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Well , then , she shall be unmarried again , and sit here among my daughters ,"
said the mother.
`` Fie on the villain who forsook her !"
In the meantime the beetle had been journeying on , and had sailed across the ditch on a cabbage leaf.
In the morning two persons came to the ditch.
When they saw him , they took him up , and turned him over and over , and looked very learned , especially one of them -- a boy.
`` Allah sees the black beetle in the black stone and in the black rock.
Is not that written in the Koran ?"
Then he translated the beetle 's name into Latin , and enlarged upon the creature 's nature and history.
The second person , an older scholar , voted for carrying him home.
He said they wanted just such good specimens ; and this seemed an uncivil speech to our beetle , and in consequence he flew suddenly out of the speaker 's hand.
As he had now dry wings , he flew a tolerable distance , and reached a hot-bed , where a sash of the glass roof was partly open , so he quietly slipped in and buried himself in the warm earth.
`` Very comfortable it is here ,"
said he.
Soon after he went to sleep , and dreamed that the emperor 's favorite horse had fallen , and had given him his golden shoes , with the promise that he should have two more.
That was all very charming.
When the beetle woke up , he crept forth and looked around him.
What splendor was in the hothouse ! In the background great palm trees growing up on high ; the sun made them look transparent ; and beneath them what a luxuriance of green , and of beaming flowers , red as fire , yellow as amber , or white as fresh-fallen snow.
`` This is an incomparable plenty of plants ,"
cried the beetle.
`` How good they will taste when they are decayed ! A capital store-room this ! There must certainly be relations of mine living here.
I will just see if I can find any one with whom I may associate.
I 'm proud , certainly , and I 'm proud of being so"
And so he prowled about in the earth , and thought what a pleasant dream that was about the dying horse , and the golden shoes he had inherited.
Suddenly a hand seized the beetle , and pressed him , and turned him round and round.
The gardener 's little son and a companion had come to the hot-bed , had espied the beetle , and wanted to have their fun with him.
First he was wrapped in a vine leaf , and then put into warm trousers-pocket.
He cribbled and crabbled about there with all his might ; but he got a good pressing from the boy 's hand for this , which served as a hint to him to keep quiet.
Then the boy went rapidly towards the great lake that lay at the end of the garden.
Here the beetle was put in an old broken wooden shoe , on which a little stick was placed upright for a mast , and to this mast the beetle was bound with a woollen thread.
Now he was a sailor , and had to sail away.
The lake was not very large , but to the beetle it seemed an ocean ; and he was so astonished at its extent , that he fell over on his back and kicked out with his legs.
The little ship sailed away.
The current of the water seized it ; but whenever it went too far from the shore , one of the boys turned up his trousers and went in after it , and brought it back to the land.
But at length , just as it went merrily out again , the two boys were called away , and very harshly , so that they hurried to obey the summons , ran away from the lake , and left the little ship to its fate.
Thus it drove away from the shore , farther and farther into the open sea : it was terrible work for the beetle , for he could not get away in consequence of being bound to the mast.
Then a fly came and paid him a visit.
`` What beautiful weather !"
said the fly.
`` I 'll rest here , and sun myself.
You have an agreeable time of it"
`` You speak without knowing the facts ,"
replied the beetle.
`` Do n't you see that I 'm a prisoner ?"
`` Ah ! but I 'm not a prisoner ,"
observed the fly ; and he flew away accordingly.
`` Well , now I know the world ,"
said the beetle to himself.
`` It is an abominable world.
I 'm the only honest person in it.
First , they refuse me my golden shoes ; then I have to lie on wet linen , and to stand in the draught ; and , to crown all , they fasten a wife upon me.
Then , when I 've taken a quick step out into the world , and found out how one can have it there , and how I wished to have it , one of those human boys comes and ties me up , and leaves me to the mercy of the wild waves , while the emperor 's favorite horse prances about proudly in golden shoes.
That is what annoys me more than all.
But one must not look for sympathy in this world ! My career has been very interesting ; but what 's the use of that , if nobody knows it ? The world does not deserve to be made acquainted with my history , for it ought to have given me golden shoes , when the emperor 's horse was shod , and I stretched out my feet to be shod too.
If I had received golden shoes , I should have become an ornament to the stable.
Now the stable has lost me , and the world has lost me.
It is all over !"
But all was not over yet.
A boat , in which there were a few young girls , came rowing up.
`` Look , yonder is an old wooden shoe sailing along ,"
said one of the girls.
`` There 's a little creature bound fast to it ,"
said another.
The boat came quite close to our beetle 's ship , and the young girls fished him out of the water.
One of them drew a small pair of scissors from her pocket , and cut the woollen thread , without hurting the beetle ; and when she stepped on shore , she put him down on the grass.
`` Creep , creep -- fly , fly -- if thou canst ,"
she said.
`` Liberty is a splendid thing"
And the beetle flew up , and straight through the open window of a great building ; there he sank down , tired and exhausted , exactly on the mane of the emperor 's favorite horse , who stood in the stable when he was at home , and the beetle also.
The beetle clung fast to the mane , and sat there a short time to recover himself.
`` Here I 'm sitting on the emperor 's favorite horse -- sitting on him just like the emperor himself !"
he cried.
`` But what was I saying ? Yes , now I remember.
That 's a good thought , and quite correct.
The smith asked me why the golden shoes were given to the horse.
Now I 'm quite clear about the answer.
They were given to the horse on _ my _ account"
And now the beetle was in a good temper again.
`` Travelling expands the mind rarely ,"
said he.
The sun 's rays came streaming into the stable , and shone upon him , and made the place lively and bright.
`` The world is not so bad , upon the whole ,"
said the beetle ; `` but one must know how to take things as they come"
Our rude house was put together of clay ; but the door-posts were columns of fluted marble found near the spot where the house was erected.
The roof reached almost down to the ground.
It was now dark brown and ugly , but it had originally consisted of blooming olive and fresh laurel branches brought from beyond the mountain.
Around our dwelling was a narrow gorge , whose walls of rock rose steeply upwards , and showed naked and black , and round their summits often hung clouds , like white living figures.
Never did I hear a singing bird there , never did the men there dance to the sound of the bagpipe ; but the spot was sacred from the old times : even its name reminded of this , for it was called Delphi ! The dark solemn mountains were all covered with snow ; the highest , which gleamed the longest in the red light of evening , was Parnassus ; the brook which rolled from it near our house was once sacred also.
Now the ass sullies it with its feet , but the stream rolls on and on , and becomes clear again.
How I can remember every spot in the deep holy solitude ! In the midst of the hut a fire was kindled , and when the hot ashes lay there red and glowing , the bread was baked in them.
When the snow was piled so high around our hut as almost to hide it , my mother appeared most cheerful : then she would hold my head between her hands , and sing the songs she never sang at other times , for the person_1 our masters would not allow it.
She sang : `` On the summit of Olympus , in the forest of dwarf firs , lay an old stag.
His eyes were heavy with tears ; he wept blue and even red tears ; and there came a roebuck by , and said , ` What ails thee , that thou weepest those blue and red tears ? ' And the stag answered , ` The Turk has come to our city : he has wild dogs for the chase , a goodly pack.
' ` I will drive them away across the islands , ' cried the young roebuck , ` I will drive them away across the islands into the deep sea ! ' But before evening sank down the roebuck was slain , and before night the stag was hunted and dead"
And when my mother sang thus , her eyes became moist , and on the long eyelashes hung a tear ; but she hid it , and baked our black bread in the ashes.
Then I would clench my fist and cry , `` We will kill the person_1 !"
but she repeated from the song the words , `` I will drive them across the islands into the deep sea.
But before evening sank down the roebuck was slain , and before the night came the stag was hunted and dead"
For several days and nights we had been lonely in our hut , when my father came home.
I knew he would bring me shells from the Gulf of Lepanto , or perhaps even a bright gleaming knife.
This time he brought us a child , a little half-naked girl , that he brought under his sheepskin cloak.
It was wrapped in a fur , and all that the little creature possessed when this was taken off , and she lay in my mother 's lap , were three silver coins , fastened in her dark hair.
My father told us that the person_1 had killed the child 's parents ; and he told so much about them , that I dreamed of the person_1 all night.
He himself had been wounded , and my mother bound up his arm.
The wound was deep , and the thick sheepskin was stiff with frozen blood.
The little maiden was to be my sister.
How radiantly beautiful she looked ! Even my mother 's eyes were not more gentle than hers.
person_2 , as she was called , was to be my sister , because her father had been united to mine by the old custom which we still keep.
They had sworn brotherhood in their youth , and chosen the most beautiful and virtuous girl in the neighborhood to consecrate their bond of friendship.
I often heard of the strange good custom.
So now the little girl was my sister.
She sat in my lap , and I brought her flowers and the feathers of the mountain birds : we drank together of the waters of Parnassus , and dwelt together for many a year under the laurel roof of the hut , while my mother sang winter after winter of the stag who wept red tears.
But as yet I did not understand that it was my own countrymen whose many sorrows were mirrored in those tears.
One day there came three Frankish men.
Their dress was different from ours.
They had tents and beds with them on their horses , and more than twenty person_1 , all armed with swords and muskets , accompanied them ; for they were friends of the pacha , and had letters from him commanding an escort for them.
They only came to see our mountains , to ascend Parnassus amid the snow and the clouds , and to look at the strange black steep rock near our hut.
They could not find room in it , nor could they endure the smoke that rolled along the ceiling and found its way out at the low door ; therefore they pitched their tents on the small space outside our dwelling , roasted lambs and birds , and poured out strong sweet wine , of which the person_1 were not allowed to partake.
When they departed , I accompanied them for some distance , carrying my little sister person_2 , wrapped in a goatskin , on my back.
One of the Frankish gentlemen made me stand in front of a rock , and drew me , and her too , as we stood there , so that we looked like one creature.
I never thought of it ; but person_2 and I were really one.
She was always sitting in my lap or riding in the goatskin at my back ; and when I dreamed , she appeared in my dreams.
Two nights afterwards , other men , armed with knives and muskets , came into our tent.
They were Albanians , brave men , my mother told me.
They only stayed a short time.
My sister person_2 sat on the knee of one of them , and when they were gone she had not three , but only two silver coins in her hair.
They wrapped tobacco in strips of paper and smoked it.
I remember they were undecided as to the road they were to take.
But they had to make a choice.
They went , and my father went with them.
Soon afterwards we heard the sound of firing.
The noise was renewed , and soldiers rushed into our hut , and took my mother , and myself , and my sister person_2 prisoners.
They declared that the robbers had been entertained by us , and that my father had acted as the robbers ' guide , and therefore we must go with them.
Presently I saw the corpses of the robbers brought in ; I saw my father 's corpse too.
I cried and cried till I fell asleep.
When I awoke , we were in prison , but the room was not worse than ours in our own house.
They gave me onions to eat , and musty wine poured from a tarry cask , but we had no better fare at home.
How long we were kept prisoners I do not know ; but many days and nights went by.
When we were set free it was the time of the holy Easter feast.
I carried person_2 on my back , for my mother was ill , and could only move slowly , and it was a long way till we came down to the sea , to the Gulf of Lepanto.
We went into a church that gleamed with pictures painted on a golden ground.
They were pictures of angels , and very beautiful ; but it seemed to me that our little person_2 was just as beautiful.
In the middle of the floor stood a coffin filled with roses.
`` The Lord Christ is pictured there in the form of a beautiful rose ,"
said my mother ; and the priest announced , `` Christ is risen !"
All the people kissed each other : each one had a burning taper in his hand , and I received one myself , and so did little person_2.
The bagpipes sounded , men danced hand in hand from the church , and outside the women were roasting the Easter lamb.
We were invited to partake , and I sat by the fire ; a boy , older than myself , put his arms round my neck , kissed me , and said , `` Christ is risen !"
and thus it was that for the first time I met person_0.
My mother could make fishermen 's nets , for which there was a good demand here in the bay , and we lived a long time by the side of the sea , the beautiful sea , that tasted like tears , and in its colors reminded me of the song of the stag that wept -- for sometimes its waters were red , and sometimes green or blue.
person_0 knew how to manage our boat , and I often sat in it , with my little person_2 , while it glided on through the water , swift as a bird flying through the air.
Then , when the sun sank down , the mountains were tinted with a deeper and deeper blue , one range seemed to rise behind the other , and behind them all stood Parnassus with its snow-crowned summit.
The mountain-top gleamed in the evening rays like glowing iron , and it seemed as though the light came from within it ; for long after the sun had set , the mountain still shone through the clear blue air.
The white water birds touched the surface of the sea with their wings , and all here was as calm and quiet as among the black rocks at Delphi.
I lay on my back in the boat , person_2 leaned against me , and the stars above us shone brighter than the lamps in our church.
They were the same stars , and they stood exactly in the same positions above me , as when I had sat in front of our hut at Delphi ; and at last I almost fancied I was there.
Suddenly there was a splash in the water , and the boat rocked violently.
I cried out in horror , for person_2 had fallen into the water : but in a moment person_0 had sprung in after her , and was holding her up to me ! We dried her clothes as well as we could , remaining on the water till they were dry ; for no one was to know what a fright we had had for our little adopted sister , in whose life person_0 now had a part.
The summer came.
The sun burned so hot that the leaves turned yellow on the trees.
I thought of our cool mountains , and of the fresh water they contained ; my mother , too , longed for them ; and one evening we wandered home.
What peace , what silence ! We walked on through the thick thyme , still fragrant though the sun had scorched its leaves.
Not a single herdsman did we meet , not one solitary hut did we pass.
Everything was quiet and deserted ; but a shooting star announced that in heaven there was yet life.
I know not if the clear blue air gleamed with light of its own , or if the radiance came from the stars ; but we could see the outlines of the mountains quite plainly.
My mother lighted a fire , roasted some roots she had brought with her , and I and my little sister slept among the thyme , without fear of the ugly Smidraki , -LRB- 4aaaaa -RRB- aaa from whose throat fire spurts forth , or of the wolf and jackal ; for my mother sat beside us , and I considered her presence protection enough for us.
We reached our old home ; but the hut was a heap of ruins , and a new one had to be built.
A few women lent my mother their aid , and in a few days walls were raised , and covered with a new roof of olive branches.
My mother made many bottle cases of bark and skins ; I kept the little flock of the priests , -LRB- 5aaaaa -RRB- aaa and person_2 and the little tortoises were my playmates.
-LRB- Footnote 4 : According to the Greek superstition , this is a monster generated from the unopened entrails of slaughtered sheep , which are thrown away in the fields.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa -LRB- Footnote 5 : A peasant who can read often becomes a priest ; he is then called `` very holy Sir ,"
and the lower orders kiss the ground on which he has stepped.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Once we had a visit from our beloved person_0 , who said he had greatly longed to see us , and who stayed with us two whole happy days.
A month afterwards he came again , and told us that he was going in a ship to Corfu and Patras , but must bid us good-bye first ; and he had brought a large fish for our mother.
He had a great deal to tell , not only of the fishermen yonder in the Gulf of Lepanto , but also of kings and heroes , who had once possessed Greece , just as the person_1 possess it now.
I have seen a bud on a rose-bush gradually unfold in days and weeks , till it became a rose , and hung there in its beauty , before I was aware how large and beautiful and red it had become ; and the same thing I now saw in person_2.
She was now a beautiful grown girl , and I had become a stout stripling.
The wolf-skins that covered my mother 's and person_2 's bed , I had myself taken from wolves that had fallen beneath my shots.
Years had gone by , when one evening person_0 came in , slender as a reed , strong and brown.
He kissed us all , and had much to tell of the fortifications of Malta , of the great ocean , and of the marvellous sepulchres of Egypt.
It sounded strange as a legend of the priests , and I looked up to him with a kind of veneration.
`` How much you know !"
I exclaimed ; `` what wonders you can tell of !"
`` But you have told me the finest thing , after all ,"
he replied.
`` You told me of a thing that has never been out of my thoughts -- of the good old custom of the bond of friendship , a custom I should like to follow.
Brother , let you and I go to church , as your father and person_2 's went before us : your sister person_2 is the most beautiful and most innocent of girls ; she shall consecrate us ! No people has such grand old customs as we Greeks"
person_2 blushed like a young rose , and my mother kissed person_0.
A couple of miles from our house there , where loose earth lies on the hill , and a few scattered trees give a shelter , stood the little church ; a silver lamp hung in front of the altar.
I had put on my best clothes : the white fustanella fell in rich folds around my hips , the red jacket fitted tight and close , the tassel on my fez cap was silver , and in my girdle gleamed a knife and my pistols.
person_0 was clad in the blue garb worn by Greek sailors ; on his chest hung a silver plate with the figure of the Virgin Mary ; his scarf was as costly as those worn by rich lords.
Every one could see that we were about to go through a solemn ceremony.
We stepped into the little simple church , where the evening sunlight , streaming through the door , gleamed on the burning lamp and the pictures on golden ground.
We knelt down on the altar steps , and person_2 came before us.
A long white garment hung loose over her graceful form ; on her white neck and bosom hung a chain , covered with old and new coins , forming a kind of collar.
Her black hair was fastened in a knot , and confined by a head-dress made of silver and gold coins that had been found in an old temple.
No Greek girl had more beautiful ornaments than she.
Her countenance glowed , and her eyes were like two stars.
We all three prayed silently ; and then she said to us , `` Will you be friends in life and in death ?"
`` Yes ,"
we replied.
`` Will you , whatever may happen , remember this -- my brother is a part of myself.
My secret is his , my happiness is his.
Self-sacrifice , patience -- everything in me belongs to him as to me ?"
And we again answered , `` Yes"
Then she joined our hands and kissed us on the forehead , and we again prayed silently.
Then the priest came through the door near the altar , and blessed us all three ; and a song , sung by the other holy men , sounded from behind the altar screen , and the bond of eternal friendship was concluded.
When we rose , I saw my mother standing by the church door weeping heartily.
How cheerful it was now , in our little hut , and by the springs of Delphi ! On the evening before his departure , person_0 sat thoughtful with me on the declivity of a mountain ; his arm was flung round my waist , and mine was round his neck : we spoke of the sorrows of Greece , and of the men whom the country could trust.
Every thought of our souls lay clear before each of us , and I seized his hand.
`` One thing thou must still know , one thing that till now has been a secret between myself and Heaven.
My whole soul is filled with love ! with a love stronger than the love I bear to my mother and to thee !"
`` And whom do you love ?"
asked person_0 , and his face and neck grew red as fire.
`` I love person_2 ,"
I replied -- and his hand trembled in mine , and he became pale as a corpse.
I saw it ; I understood the cause ; and I believe _ my _ hand trembled.
I bent towards him , kissed his forehead , and whispered , `` I have never spoken of it to her , and perhaps she does not love me.
Brother , think of this : I have seen her daily ; she has grown up beside me , and has become a part of my soul !"
`` And she shall be thine !"
he exclaimed , `` thine ! I may not deceive thee , nor will I do so.
I also love her ; but to-morrow I depart.
In a year we shall see each other once more , and then you will be married , will you not ? I have a little gold of my own : it shall be thine.
Thou must , thou shalt take it"
And we wandered home silently across the mountains.
It was late in the evening when we stood at my mother 's door.
person_2 held the lamp upwards as we entered ; my mother was not there.
She gazed at person_0 with a beautifully mournful gaze.
`` To-morrow you are going from us ,"
she said : `` I am very sorry for it"
`` Sorry !"
he repeated , and in his voice there seemed a trouble as great as the grief I myself felt.
I could not speak , but he seized her hand and said , `` Our brother yonder loves you , and he is dear to you , is he not ? His very silence is a proof of his affection"
person_2 trembled and burst into tears.
Then I saw no one but her , thought of none but her , and threw my arms round her , and said , `` I love thee !"
She pressed her lips to mine , and flung her arms round my neck ; but the lamp had fallen to the ground , and all was dark around us -- dark as in the heart of poor person_0.
Before daybreak he rose , kissed us all , said farewell , and went away.
He had given all his money to my mother for us.
person_2 was my betrothed , and a few days afterwards she became my wife"
Once there lived a great person_2 , whose name was Salabhan , and he had a Queen , by name Lona , who , though she wept and prayed at many a shrine , had never a child to gladden her eyes.
After a long time , however , a son was promised to her.
Queen Lona returned to the palace , and when the time for the birth of the promised son drew nigh , she inquired of three Jogis who came begging to her gate , what the child 's fate would be , and the youngest of them answered and said , `` Oh , Queen ! the child will be a boy , and he will live to be a great man.
But for twelve years you must not look upon his face , for if either you or his father see it before the twelve years are past , you will surely die ! This is what you must do ; as soon as the child is born you must send him away to a cellar underneath the ground , and never let him see the light of day for twelve years.
After they are over , he may come forth , bathe in the river , put on new clothes , and visit you.
His name shall be person_2 , and he shall be known far and wide"
So , when a fair young person_4 was in due time born into the world , his parents hid him away in an underground palace , with nurses , and servants , and everything else a person_0 's son might desire.
And with him they sent a young colt , born the same day , and sword , spear , and shield , against the day when person_2 should go forth into the world.
So there the child lived , playing with his colt , and talking to his parrot , while the nurses taught him all things needful for a person_0 's son to know.
Young person_1 lived on , far from the light of day , for eleven long years , growing tall and strong , yet contented to remain playing with his colt , and talking to his parrot ; but when the twelfth year began , the lad 's heart leapt up with desire for change , and he loved to listen to the sounds of life which came to him in his palace-prison from the outside world.
`` I must go and see where the voices come from !"
he said ; and when his nurses told him he must not go for one year more , he only laughed aloud , saying , `` Nay ! I stay no longer here for any man !"
Then he saddled his Arab horse Bhaunr , put on his shining armor , and rode forth into the world ; but mindful of what his nurses had oft told him , when he came to the river , he dismounted , and , going into the water , washed himself and his clothes.
Then , clean of raiment , fair of face , and brave of heart , he rode on his way until he reached his father 's city.
There he sat down to rest awhile by a well , where the women were drawing water in earthen pitchers.
Now , as they passed him , their full pitchers poised upon their heads , the gay young person_4 flung stones at the earthen vessels , and broke them all.
Then the women , drenched with water , went weeping and wailing to the palace , complaining to the person_0 that a mighty young person_4 in shining armor , with a parrot on his wrist and a gallant steed beside him , sat by the well , and broke their pitchers.
Now , as soon as person_2h Salabhan heard this , he guessed at once that it was person_4 come forth before the time , and , mindful of the Jogis ' words that he would die if he looked on his son 's face before twelve years were past , he did not dare to send his guards to seize the offender and bring him to be judged.
So he bade the women be comforted , and take pitchers of iron and brass , giving new ones from his treasury to those who did not possess any of their own.
But when person_4 saw the women returning to the well with pitchers of iron and brass , he laughed to himself , and drew his mighty bow till the sharp-pointed arrows pierced the metal vessels as though they had been clay.
Yet still the person_0 did not send for him , so he mounted his steed and set off in the pride of his youth and strength to the palace.
He strode into the audience hall , where his father sat trembling , and saluted him will all reverence ; but person_2 Salabhan , in fear of his life , turned his back hastily and said never a word in reply.
Then person_4 called scornfully to him across the hall : `` I came to greet thee , person_0 , and not to harm thee ! What have I done that thou shouldst turn away ? Sceptre and empire have no power to charm me -- I go to seek a worthier prize than they !"
Then he strode away , full of bitterness and anger ; but , as he passed under the palace windows , he heard his mother weeping , and the sound softened his heart , so that his wrath died down , and a great loneliness fell upon him , because he was spurned by both father and mother.
So he cried sorrowfully , `` Oh heart crown 'd with grief , hast thou nought But tears for thy son ? Art mother of mine ? Give one thought To my life just begun !"
And Queen Lona answered through her tears : `` Yea ! mother am I , though I weep , So hold this word sure , -- Go , reign king of all men , but keep Thy heart good and pure !"
So person_2 was comforted , and began to make ready for fortune.
He took with him his horse Bhaunr and his parrot , both of whom had lived with him since he was born.
So they made a goodly company , and Queen Lona , when she saw them going , watched them from her window till she saw nothing but a cloud of dust on the horizon ; then she bowed her head on her hands and wept , saying : `` Oh ! son who ne'er gladdened mine eyes , Let the cloud of thy going arise , Dim the sunlight and darken the day ; For the mother whose son is away Is as dust !"
person_1 had started off to play chaupur with person_0.
And as he journeyed there came a fierce storm of thunder and lightning , so that he sought shelter , and found none save an old graveyard , where a headless corpse lay upon the ground.
So lonesome was it that even the corpse seemed company , and person_1 , sitting down beside it , said : `` There is no one here , nor far nor near , Save this breathless corpse so cold and grim ; Would God he might come to life again , ` Twould be less lonely to talk to him"
And immediately the headless corpse arose and sat beside person_2.
And he , nothing astonished , said to it : `` The storm beats fierce and loud , The clouds rise thick in the west ; What ails thy grave and shroud , Oh corpse ! that thou canst not rest ?"
Then the headless corpse replied : `` On earth I was even as thou , My turban awry like a king , My head with the highest , I trow , Having my fun and my fling , Fighting my foes like a brave , Living my life with a swing.
And , now I am dead , Sins , heavy as lead , Will give me no rest in my grave !"
So the night passed on , dark and dreary , while person_1 sat in the graveyard and talked to the headless corpse.
Now when morning broke and person_1 said he must continue his journey , the headless corpse asked him whither he was going , and when he said `` to play chaupur with person_0 ,"
the corpse begged him to give up the idea saying , `` I am person_0 's brother , and I know his ways.
Every day , before breakfast , he cuts off the heads of two or three men , just to amuse himself.
One day no one else was at hand , so he cut off mine , and he will surely cut off yours on some pretence or another.
However , if you are determined to go and play chaupur with him , take some of the bones from this graveyard , and make your dice out of them , and then the enchanted dice with which my brother plays will lose their virtue.
Otherwise he will always win"
So person_1 took some of the bones lying about , and fashioned them into dice , and these he put into his pocket.
Then , bidding adieu to the headless corpse , he went on his way to play chaupur with the person_0.
Now , as person_2 , tender-hearted and strong , journeyed along to play chaupur with the person_0 , he came to a burning forest , and a voice rose from the fire saying , `` Oh , traveller ! for God 's sake save me from the fire !"
Then the person_4 turned towards the burning forest , and , lo ! the voice was the voice of a tiny cricket.
Nevertheless , person_1 , tender-hearted and strong , snatched it from the fire and set it at liberty.
Then the little creature , full of gratitude , pulled out one of its feelers , and giving it to its preserver , said , `` Keep this , and should you ever be in trouble , put it into the fire , and instantly I will come to your aid"
The person_4 smiled , saying , `` What help could _ you _ give _ me _ ?"
Nevertheless , he kept the hair and went on his way.
Now , when he reached the city of person_0 , seventy maidens , daughters of the person_0 , came out to meet him , -- seventy fair maidens , merry and careless , full of smiles and laughter ; but one , the youngest of them all , when she saw the gallant young person_4 riding on Bhaunr Iraqi , going gaily to his doom , was filled with pity , and called to him saying : `` Fair person_4 , on the charger so gray , Turn thee back ! turn thee back ! Or lower thy lance for the fray ; Thy head will be forfeit to-day ! Dost love life ? then , stranger , I pray , Turn thee back ! turn thee back !"
But he , smiling at the maiden , answered lightly : `` Fair maiden , I come from afar , Sworn conqueror in love and in war ! person_0 my coming will rue , His head in four pieces I 'll hew ; Then forth as a bridegroom I 'll ride , With you , little maid , as my bride !"
Now when person_1 replied so gallantly , the maiden looked in his face , and seeing how fair he was , and how brave and strong , she straightway fell in love with him , and would gladly have followed him through the world.
But the other sixty-nine maidens , being jealous , laughed scornfully at her , saying , `` Not so fast , oh gallant warrior ! If you would marry our sister you must first do our bidding , for you will be our younger brother"
`` Fair sisters !"
quoth person_1 gaily , `` give me my task and I will perform it"
So the sixty-nine maidens mixed a hundred-weight of millet seed with a hundredweight of sand , and giving it to person_1 , bade him separate the seed from the sand.
Then he bethought him of the cricket , and drawing the feeler from his pocket , thrust it into the fire.
And immediately there was a whirring noise in the air , and a great flight of crickets alighted beside him , and amongst them the cricket whose life he had saved.
Then person_1 said , `` Separate the millet seed from the sand"
`` Is that all ?"
quoth the cricket ; `` had I known how small a job you wanted me to do , I would not have assembled so many of my brethren"
With that the flight of crickets set to work , and in one night they separated the seed from the sand.
Now when the sixty-nine fair maidens , daughters of the king saw that person_1 had performed his task , they set him another , bidding him swing them all , one by one , in their swings , until they were tired.
Whereupon he laughed , saying , `` There are seventy of you , counting my little bride yonder , and I am not going to spend my life swinging girls ! Why , by the time I have given each of you a swing , the first will be wanting another ! No ! if you want a swing , get in , all seventy of you , into one swing , and then I 'll see what can be done"
So the seventy maidens climbed into one swing , and person_2 , standing in his shining armor , fastened the ropes to his mighty bow , and drew it up to its fullest bent.
Then he let go , and like an arrow the swing shot into the air , with its burden of seventy fair maidens , merry and careless , full of smiles and laughter.
But as it swung back again , Kasalu , standing there in his shining armor , drew his sharp sword and severed the ropes.
Then the seventy fair maidens fell to the ground headlong ; and some were bruised and some broken , but the only one who escaped unhurt was the maiden who loved person_1 , for she fell out last , on the top of the others , and so came to no harm.
After this , person_1 strode on fifteen paces , till he came to the seventy drums , that every one who came to play chaupur with the person_0 had to beat in turn ; and he beat them so loudly that he broke them all.
Then he came to the seventy gongs , all in a row , and he hammered them so hard that they cracked to pieces.
Seeing this , the youngest person_4ss , who was the only one who could run , fled to her father the person_0 in a great fright , saying : `` A mighty person_4 , person_3 ! making havoc , rides along , He swung us , seventy maidens fair , and threw us out headlong ; He broke the drums you placed there and the gongs too in his pride , Sure , he will kill thee , father mine , and take me for his bride !"
But person_0 replied scornfully : `` Silly maiden , thy words make a lot Of a very small matter ; For fear of my valor , I wot , His armor will clatter.
As soon as I 've eaten my bread I 'll go forth and cut off his head !"
Notwithstanding these brave and boastful words , he was in reality very much afraid , having heard of person_1 's renown.
And learning that he was stopping at the house of an old woman in the city , till the hour for playing chaupur arrived , person_3 sent slaves to him with trays of sweetmeats and fruit , as to an honored guest.
But the food was poisoned.
Now when the slaves brought the trays to person_2 , he rose up haughtily , saying , `` Go , tell your master I have nought to do with him in friendship.
I am his sworn enemy , and I eat not of his salt !"
So saying , he threw the sweetmeats to person_2 's dog , which had followed the slave , and lo ! the dog died.
Then person_1 was very wroth , and said bitterly , `` Go back to person_3 , slaves ! and tell him that person_1 deems it no act of bravery to kill even an enemy by treachery"
Now , when evening came , person_2 went forth to play chaupur with person_0 , and as he passed some potters ' kilns he saw a cat wandering about restlessly ; so he asked what ailed her , that she never stood still , and she replied , `` My kittens are in an unbaked pot in the kiln yonder.
It has just been set alight , and my children will be baked alive ; therefore I can not rest !"
Her words moved the heart of person_2 , and , going to the potter , he asked him to sell the kiln as it was ; but the potter replied that he could not settle a fair price till the pots were burnt , as he could not tell how many would come out whole.
Nevertheless , after some bargaining , he consented at last to sell the kiln , and person_1 , having searched all the pots , restored the kittens to their mother , and she , in gratitude for his mercy , gave him one of them , saying , `` Put it in your pocket , for it will help you when you are in difficulties"
So person_2 put the kitten in his pocket , and went to play chaupur with the person_0.
Now , before they sat down to play , person_2 fixed his stakes , -- on the first game , his kingdom ; on the second , the wealth of the whole world ; and , on the third , his own head.
So , likewise , person_2 fixed his stakes , -- on the first game , his arms ; on the second , his horse ; and , on the third , his own head.
Then they began to play , and it fell to person_1 's lot to make the first move.
Now he , forgetful of the dead man 's warning , played with the dice given him by person_2 , besides which , person_3 let loose his famous rat , Dhol person_2 , and it ran about the board , upsetting the chaupur pieces on the sly , so that person_1 lost the first game , and gave up his shining armor.
Then the second game began , and once more Dhol person_2 , the rat , upset the pieces ; and person_1 , losing the game , gave up his faithful steed.
Then Bhaunr , the Arab steed , who stood by , found voice , and cried to his master , `` Sea-born am I , bought with much gold ; Dear person_4 ! trust me now as of old.
I 'll carry you far from these wiles -- My flight , all unspurr 'd , will be swift as a bird , For thousands and thousands of miles ! Or if needs you must stay ; ere the next game you play , Place hand in your pocket , I pray !"
Hearing this , person_2 frowned , and bade his slaves remove Bhaunr , the Arab steed , since he gave his master advice in the game.
Now , when the slaves came to lead the faithful steed away , person_1 could not refrain from tears , thinking over the long years during which Bhaunr , the Arab steed , had been his companion.
But the horse cried out again , `` Weep not , dear person_4 ! I shall not eat my bread Of stranger hands , nor to strange stall be led.
Take thy right hand , and place it as I said"
These words roused some recollection in person_1 's mind , and when , just at this moment , the kitten in his pocket began to struggle , he remembered all about the warning , and the dice made from dead men 's bones.
Then his heart rose up once more , and he called boldly to person_2 , `` Leave my horse and arms here for the present.
Time enough to take them away when you have won my head !"
Now , person_2 , seeing person_1 's confident bearing , began to be afraid , and ordered all the women of his palace to come forth in their gayest attire and stand before person_1 , so as to distract his attention from the game.
But he never even looked at them , and drawing the dice from his pocket , said to person_3 , `` We have played with your dice all this time ; now we will play with mine"
Then the kitten went and sat at the window through which the rat Dhol person_2 used to come , and the game began.
After a while , person_3 , seeing person_2 was winning , called to his rat , but when Dhol person_2 saw the kitten he was afraid , and would not go further.
So person_1 won , and took back his arms.
Next he played for his horse , and once more person_2 called for his rat ; but Dhol person_2 , seeing the kitten keeping watch , was afraid.
So person_1 won the second stake , and took back Bhaunr , the Arab steed.
Then person_3 brought all his skill to bear on the third and last game , saying , `` Oh moulded pieces ! favor me to-day ! For sooth this is a man with whom I play.
No paltry risk -- but life and death at stake ; As person_3 does , so do , for person_3 's sake !"
But person_1 answered back , `` Oh moulded pieces ! favor me to-day ! For sooth it is a man with whom I play.
No paltry risk -- but life and death at stake ; As Heaven does , so do , for Heaven 's sake !"
So they began to play , whilst the women stood round in a circle , and the kitten watched Dhol person_2 from the window.
Then person_3 lost , first his kingdom , then the wealth of the whole world , and lastly his head.
Just then , a servant came in to announce the birth of a daughter to person_2 , and he , overcome by misfortunes , said , `` Kill her at once ! for she has been born in an evil moment , and has brought her father ill luck !"
But person_1 rose up in his shining armor , tender-hearted and strong , saying , `` Not so , oh king ! She has done no evil.
Give me this child to wife ; and if you will vow , by all you hold sacred , never again to play chaupur for another 's head , I will spare yours now !"
Then person_3 vowed a solemn vow never to play for another 's head ; and after that he took a fresh mango branch , and the new-born babe , and placing them on a golden dish gave them to person_1.
Now , as he left the palace , carrying with him the new-born babe and the mango branch , he met a band of prisoners , and they called out to him , `` A royal hawk art thou , oh person_0 ! the rest But timid wild-fowl.
Grant us our request , -- Unloose these chains , and live for ever blest !"
And person_2 hearkened to them , and bade person_0 set them at liberty.
Then he went to the Murti Hills , and placed the new-born babe , Kokilan , in an underground palace , and planted the mango branch at the door , saying , `` In twelve years the mango tree will blossom ; then will I return and marry Kokilan"
And after twelve years , the mango tree began to flower , and person_2 married the person_4ss Kokilan , whom he won from person_3 when he played chaupur with the person_0"
The story of the girl who trod on the loaf , to avoid soiling her shoes , and of the misfortunes that befell this girl , is well known.
It has been written , and even printed.
The girl 's name was person_0 ; she was a poor child , but proud and presumptuous ; there was a bad foundation in her , as the saying is.
When she was quite a little child , it was her delight to catch flies , and tear off their wings , so as to convert them into creeping things.
Grown older , she would take cockchafers and beetles , and spit them on pins.
Then she pushed a green leaf or a little scrap of paper towards their feet , and the poor creatures seized it , and held it fast , and turned it over and over , struggling to get free from the pin.
`` The cockchafer is reading ,"
person_0 would say.
`` See how he turns the leaf round and round !"
With years she grew worse rather than better ; but she was pretty , and that was her misfortune ; otherwise she would have been more sharply reproved than she was.
`` Your headstrong will requires something strong to break it !"
her own mother often said.
`` As a little child , you used to trample on my apron ; but I fear you will one day trample on my heart"
And that is what she really did.
She was sent into the country , into service in the house of rich people , who kept her as their own child , and dressed her in corresponding style.
She looked well , and her presumption increased.
When she had been there about a year , her mistress said to her , `` You ought once to visit your parents , person_0"
And person_0 set out to visit her parents , but it was only to show herself in her native place , and that the people there might see how grand she had become ; but when she came to the entrance of the village , and the young husbandmen and maids stood there chatting , and her own mother appeared among them , sitting on a stone to rest , and with a faggot of sticks before her that she had picked up in the wood , then person_0 turned back , for she felt ashamed that she , who was so finely dressed , should have for a mother a ragged woman , who picked up wood in the forest.
She did not turn back out of pity for her mother 's poverty , she was only angry.
And another half-year went by , and her mistress said again , `` You ought to go to your home , and visit your old parents , person_0.
I 'll make you a present of a great wheaten loaf that you may give to them ; they will certainly be glad to see you again"
And person_0 put on her best clothes , and her new shoes , and drew her skirts around her , and set out , stepping very carefully , that she might be clean and neat about the feet ; and there was no harm in that.
But when she came to the place where the footway led across the moor , and where there was mud and puddles , she threw the loaf into the mud , and trod upon it to pass over without wetting her feet.
But as she stood there with one foot upon the loaf and the other uplifted to step farther , the loaf sank with her , deeper and deeper , till she disappeared altogether , and only a great puddle , from which the bubbles rose , remained where she had been.
And that 's the story.
-LRB- Illustration : INGE TURNS BACK AT THE SIGHT OF HER POOR MOTHER.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa But whither did person_0 go ? She sank into the moor ground , and went down to the moor woman , who is always brewing there.
The moor woman is cousin to the elf maidens , who are well enough known , of whom songs are sung , and whose pictures are painted ; but concerning the moor woman it is only known that when the meadows steam in summer-time it is because she is brewing.
Into the moor woman 's brewery did person_0 sink down ; and no one can endure that place long.
A box of mud is a palace compared with the moor woman 's brewery.
Every barrel there has an odour that almost takes away one 's senses ; and the barrels stand close to each other ; and wherever there is a little opening among them , through which one might push one 's way , the passage becomes impracticable from the number of damp toads and fat snakes who sit out their time there.
Among this company did person_0 fall ; and all the horrible mass of living creeping things was so icy cold , that she shuddered in all her limbs , and became stark and stiff.
She continued fastened to the loaf , and the loaf drew her down as an amber button draws a fragment of straw.
The moor woman was at home , and on that day there were visitors in the brewery.
These visitors were old Bogey and his grandmother , who came to inspect it ; and Bogey 's grandmother is a venomous old woman , who is never idle : she never rides out to pay a visit without taking her work with her ; and , accordingly , she had brought it on the day in question.
She sewed biting-leather to be worked into men 's shoes , and which makes them wander about unable to settle anywhere.
She wove webs of lies , and strung together hastily-spoken words that had fallen to the ground ; and all this was done for the injury and ruin of mankind.
Yes , indeed , she knew how to sew , to weave , and to string , this old grandmother ! Catching sight of person_0 , she put up her double eye-glass , and took another look at the girl.
`` That 's a girl who has ability !"
she observed , `` and I beg you will give me the little one as a memento of my visit here.
She 'll make a capital statue to stand in my grandson 's antechamber"
And person_0 was given up to her , and this is how person_0 came into Bogey 's domain.
People do n't always go there by the direct path , but they can get there by roundabout routes if they have a tendency in that direction.
That was a never-ending antechamber.
The visitor became giddy who looked forward , and doubly giddy when he looked back , and saw a whole crowd of people , almost utterly exhausted , waiting till the gate of mercy should be opened to them -- they had to wait a long time ! Great fat waddling spiders spun webs of a thousand years over their feet , and these webs cut like wire , and bound them like bronze fetters ; and , moreover , there was an eternal unrest working in every heart -- a miserable unrest.
The miser stood there , and had forgotten the key of his strong box , and he knew the key was sticking in the lock.
It would take too long to describe the various sorts of torture that were found there together.
person_0 felt a terrible pain while she had to stand there as a statue , for she was tied fast to the loaf.
`` That 's the fruit of wishing to keep one 's feet neat and tidy ,"
she said to herself.
`` Just look how they 're all staring at me !"
Yes , certainly , the eyes of all were fixed upon her , and their evil thoughts gleamed forth from their eyes , and they spoke to one another , moving their lips , from which no sound whatever came forth : they were very horrible to behold.
`` It must be a great pleasure to look at me !"
thought person_0 , `` and indeed I have a pretty face and fine clothes"
And she turned her eyes , for she could not turn her head ; her neck was too stiff for that.
But she had not considered how her clothes had been soiled in the moor woman 's brewhouse.
Her garments were covered with mud ; a snake had fastened in her hair , and dangled down her back ; and out of each fold of her frock a great toad looked forth , croaking like an asthmatic poodle.
That was very disconcerting.
`` But all the rest of them down here look horrible ,"
she observed to herself , and derived consolation from the thought.
The worst of all was the terrible hunger that tormented her.
But could she not stoop and break off a piece of the loaf on which she stood ? No , her back was too stiff , her hands and arms were benumbed , and her whole body was like a pillar of stone ; only she was able to turn her eyes in her head , to turn them quite round so that she could see backwards : it was an ugly sight.
And then the flies came up , and crept to and fro over her eyes , and she blinked her eyes , but the flies would not go away , for they could not fly : their wings had been pulled out , so that they were converted into creeping insects : it was horrible torment added to the hunger , for she felt empty , quite , entirely empty.
`` If this lasts much longer ,"
she said , `` I shall not be able to bear it"
But she had to bear it , and it lasted on and on.
Then a hot tear fell down upon her head , rolled over her face and neck , down on to the loaf on which she stood ; and then another tear rolled down , followed by many more.
Who might be weeping for person_0 ? Had she not still a mother in the world ? The tears of sorrow which a mother weeps for her child always make their way to the child ; but they do not relieve it , they only increase its torment.
And now to bear this unendurable hunger , and yet not to be able to touch the loaf on which she stood ! She felt as if she had been feeding on herself , and had become like a thin , hollow reed that takes in every sound , for she heard everything that was said of her up in the world , and all that she heard was hard and evil.
Her mother , indeed , wept much and sorrowed for her , but for all that she said , `` A haughty spirit goes before a fall.
That was thy ruin , person_0.
Thou hast sorely grieved thy mother"
Her mother and all on earth knew of the sin she had committed ; knew that she had trodden upon the loaf , and had sunk and disappeared ; for the cowherd had seen it from the hill beside the moor.
`` Greatly hast thou grieved thy mother , person_0 ,"
said the mother ; `` yes , yes , I thought it would be thus"
`` Oh that I never had been born !"
thought person_0 ; `` it would have been far better.
But what use is my mother 's weeping now ?"
And she heard how her master and mistress , who had kept and cherished her like kind parents , now said she was a sinful child , and did not value the gifts of God , but trampled them under her feet , and that the gates of mercy would only open slowly to her.
`` They should have punished me ,"
thought person_0 , `` and have driven out the whims I had in my head"
She heard how a complete song was made about her , a song of the proud girl who trod upon the loaf to keep her shoes clean , and she heard how the song was sung everywhere.
`` That I should have to bear so much evil for this !"
thought person_0 ; `` the others ought to be punished , too , for their sins.
Yes , then there would be plenty of punishing to do.
Ah , how I 'm being tortured !"
And her heart became harder than her outward form.
`` Here in this company one ca n't even become better ,"
she said , `` and I do n't want to become better ! Look , how they 're all staring at me !"
And her heart was full of anger and malice against all men.
`` Now they 've something to talk about at last up yonder.
Ah , how I 'm being tortured !"
And then she heard how her story was told to the little children , and the little ones called her the godless person_0 , and said she was so naughty and ugly that she must be well punished.
Thus , even the children 's mouths spoke hard words of her.
But one day , while grief and hunger gnawed her hollow frame , and she heard her name mentioned and her story told to an innocent child , a little girl , she became aware that the little one burst into tears at the tale of the haughty , vain person_0.
`` But will person_0 never come up here again ?"
asked the little girl.
And the reply was , `` She will never come up again"
`` But if she were to say she was sorry , and to beg pardon , and say she would never do so again ?"
`` Yes , then she might come ; but she will not beg pardon ,"
was the reply.
`` I should be so glad if she would ,"
said the little girl ; and she was quite inconsolable.
`` I 'll give my doll and all my playthings if she may only come up.
It 's too dreadful -- poor person_0 !"
And these words penetrated to person_0 's inmost heart , and seemed to do her good.
It was the first time any one had said , `` Poor person_0 ,"
without adding anything about her faults : a little innocent child was weeping and praying for mercy for her.
It made her feel quite strangely , and she herself would gladly have wept , but she could not weep , and that was a torment in itself.
While years were passing above her , for where she was there was no change , she heard herself spoken of more and more seldom.
At last , one day a sigh struck on her ear : `` person_0 , person_0 , how you have grieved me ! I said how it would be !"
It was the last sigh of her dying mother.
Occasionally she heard her name spoken by her former employers , and they were pleasant words when the woman said , `` Shall I ever see thee again , person_0 ? One knows not what may happen"
But person_0 knew right well that her good mistress would never come to the place where she was.
And again time went on -- a long , bitter time.
Then person_0 heard her name pronounced once more , and saw two bright stars that seemed gleaming above her.
They were two gentle eyes closing upon earth.
So many years had gone by since the little girl had been inconsolable and wept about `` poor person_0 ,"
that the child had become an old woman , who was now to be called home to heaven ; and in the last hour of existence , when the events of the whole life stand at once before us , the old woman remembered how as a child she had cried heartily at the story of person_0.
And the eyes of the old woman closed , and the eye of her soul was opened to look upon the hidden things.
She , in whose last thoughts person_0 had been present so vividly , saw how deeply the poor girl had sunk , and burst into tears at the sight ; in heaven she stood like a child , and wept for poor person_0.
And her tears and prayers sounded like an echo in the dark empty space that surrounded the tormented captive soul , and the unhoped-for love from above conquered her , for an angel was weeping for her.
Why was this vouchsafed to her ? The tormented soul seemed to gather in her thoughts every deed she had done on earth , and she , person_0 , trembled and wept such tears as she had never yet wept.
She was filled with sorrow about herself : it seemed as though the gate of mercy could never open to her ; and while in deep penitence she acknowledged this , a beam , of light shot radiantly down into the depths to her , with a greater force than that of the sunbeam which melts the snow man the boys have built up ; and quicker than the snow-flake melts , and becomes a drop of water that falls on the warm lips of a child , the stony form of person_0 was changed to mist , and a little bird soared with the speed of lightning upward into the world of men.
But the bird was timid and shy towards all things around ; he was ashamed of himself , ashamed to encounter any living thing , and hurriedly sought to conceal himself in a dark hole in an old crumbling wall ; there he sat cowering , trembling through his whole frame , and unable to utter a sound , for he had no voice.
Long he sat there , before he could rightly see all the beauty around him ; for it was beautiful.
The air was fresh and mild , the moon cast its mild radiance over the earth ; trees and bushes exhaled fragrance , and it was right pleasant where he sat , and his coat of feathers was clean and pure.
How all creation seemed to speak of beneficence and love ! The bird wanted to sing of the thoughts that stirred in his breast , but he could not ; gladly would he have sung as the cuckoo and the nightingale sung in spring-time.
But Heaven , that hears the mute song of praise of the worm , could hear the notes of praise which now trembled in the breast of the bird , as David 's psalms were heard before they had fashioned themselves into words and song.
For weeks these toneless songs stirred within the bird ; at last , the holy Christmas-time approached.
The peasant who dwelt near set up a pole by the old wall with , some ears of corn bound to the top , that the birds of heaven might have a good meal , and rejoice in the happy , blessed time.
And on Christmas morning the sun arose and shone upon the ears of corn , which were surrounded by a number of twittering birds.
Then out of the hole in the wall streamed forth the voice of another bird , and the bird soared forth from its hiding-place ; and in heaven it was well known what bird this was.
It was a hard winter.
The ponds were covered with ice , and the beasts of the field and the birds of the air were stinted for food.
Our little bird soared away over the high road , and in the ruts of the sledges he found here and there a grain of corn , and at the halting-places some crumbs.
Of these he ate only a few , but he called all the other hungry sparrows around him , that they , too , might have some food.
He flew into the towns , and looked round about ; and wherever a kind hand had strewn bread on the window-sill for the birds , he only ate a single crumb himself , and gave all the rest to the other birds.
In the course of the winter , the bird had collected so many bread crumbs , and given them to the other birds , that they equalled the weight of the loaf on which person_0 had trod to keep her shoes clean ; and when the last bread crumb had been found and given , the gray wings of the bird became white , and spread far out.
`` Yonder is a sea-swallow , flying away across the water ,"
said the children when they saw the white bird.
Now it dived into the sea , and now it rose again into the clear sunlight.
It gleamed white ; but no one could tell whither it went , though some asserted that it flew straight into the sun"
In olden times , when the Lord himself still used to walk about on this earth amongst men , it once happened that he was tired and overtaken by the darkness before he could reach an inn.
Now there stood on the road before him two houses facing each other ; the one large and beautiful , the other small and poor.
The large one belonged to a rich man , and the small one to a poor man.
Then the Lord thought , `` I shall be no burden to the rich man , I will stay the night with him"
When the rich man heard some one knocking at his door , he opened the window and asked the stranger what he wanted.
The Lord answered , `` I only ask for a night 's lodging"
Then the rich man looked at the traveler from head to foot , and as the Lord was wearing common clothes , and did not look like one who had much money in his pocket , he shook his head , and said , `` No , I can not take you in , my rooms are full of herbs and seeds ; and if I were to lodge everyone who knocked at my door , I might very soon go begging myself.
Go somewhere else for a lodging ,"
and with this he shut down the window and left the Lord standing there.
So the Lord turned his back on the rich man , and went across to the small house and knocked.
He had hardly done so when the poor man opened the little door and bade the traveler come in.
`` Pass the night with me , it is already dark ,"
said he ; `` you can not go any further to-night"
This pleased the Lord , and he went in.
The poor man 's wife shook hands with him , and welcomed him , and said he was to make himself at home and put up with what they had got ; they had not much to offer him , but what they had they would give him with all their hearts.
Then she put the potatoes on the fire , and while they were boiling , she milked the goat , that they might have a little milk with them.
When the cloth was laid , the Lord sat down with the man and his wife , and he enjoyed their coarse food , for there were happy faces at the table.
When they had had supper and it was bed-time , the woman called her husband apart and said , `` Hark you , dear husband , let us make up a bed of straw for ourselves to-night , and then the poor traveler can sleep in our bed and have a good rest , for he has been walking the whole day through , and that makes one weary"
`` With all my heart ,"
he answered , `` I will go and offer it to him ;"
and he went to the stranger and invited him , if he had no objection , to sleep in their bed and rest his limbs properly.
But the Lord was unwilling to take their bed from the two old folks ; however , they would not be satisfied , until at length he did it and lay down in their bed , while they themselves lay on some straw on the ground.
Next morning they got up before daybreak , and made as good a breakfast as they could for the guest.
When the sun shone in through the little window , and the Lord had got up , he again ate with them , and then prepared to set out on his journey.
But as he was standing at the door he turned round and said , `` As you are so kind and good , you may wish three things for yourselves and I will grant them"
Then the man said , `` What else should I wish for but eternal happiness , and that we two , as long as we live , may be healthy and have every day our daily bread ; for the third wish , I do not know what to have"
And the Lord said to him , `` Will you wish for a new house instead of this old one ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
said the man ; `` if I can have that , too , I should like it very much"
And the Lord fulfilled his wish , and changed their old house into a new one , again gave them his blessing , and went on.
The sun was high when the rich man got up and leaned out of his window and saw , on the opposite side of the way , a new clean-looking house with red tiles and bright windows where the old hut used to be.
He was very much astonished , and called his wife and said to her , `` Tell me , what can have happened ? Last night there was a miserable little hut standing there , and to-day there is a beautiful new house.
Run over and see how that has come to pass"
So his wife went and asked the poor man , and he said to her , `` Yesterday evening a traveler came here and asked for a night 's lodging , and this morning when he took leave of us he granted us three wishes -- eternal happiness , health during this life and our daily bread as well , and besides this , a beautiful new house instead of our old hut"
When the rich man 's wife heard this , she ran back in haste and told her husband how it had happened.
The man said , `` I could tear myself to pieces ! If I had but known that ! That traveler came to our house too , and wanted to sleep here , and I sent him away"
`` Quick !"
said his wife , `` get on your horse.
You can still catch the man up , and then you must ask to have three wishes granted to you"
The rich man followed the good counsel and galloped away on his horse , and soon came up with the Lord.
He spoke to him softly and pleasantly , and begged him not to take it amiss that he had not let him in directly ; he was looking for the front-door key , and in the meantime the stranger had gone away , if he returned the same way he must come and stay with him.
`` Yes ,"
said the Lord ; `` if I ever come back again , I will do so"
Then the rich man asked if might not wish for three things too , as his neighbor had done ? `` Yes ,"
said the Lord , he might , but it would not be to his advantage , and he had better not wish for anything ; but the rich man thought that he could easily ask for something which would add to his happiness , if he only knew that it would be granted.
So the Lord said to him , `` Ride home , then , and three wishes which you shall form , shall be fulfilled"
The rich man had now gained what he wanted , so he rode home , and began to consider what he should wish for.
As he was thus thinking he let the bridle fall , and the horse began to caper about , so that he was continually disturbed in his meditations , and could not collect his thoughts at all.
He patted its neck , and said , `` Gently , Lisa ,"
but the horse only began new tricks.
Then at last he was angry , and cried quite impatiently , `` I wish your neck was broken !"
Directly he had said the words , down the horse fell on the ground , and there it lay dead and never moved again.
And thus was his first wish fulfilled.
As he was miserly by nature , he did not like to leave the harness lying there ; so he cut it off , and put it on his back ; and now he had to go on foot.
`` I have still two wishes left ,"
said he , and comforted himself with that thought.
And now as he was walking slowly through the sand , and the sun was burning hot at noon-day , he grew quite hot-tempered and angry.
The saddle hurt his back , and he had not yet any idea what to wish for.
`` If I were to wish for all the riches and treasures in the world ,"
said he to himself , `` I should still to think of all kinds of other things later on , I know that , beforehand.
But I will manage so that there is nothing at all left me to wish for afterwards"
Then he sighed and said , `` Ah , if I were but that Bavarian peasant , who likewise had three wishes granted to him , and knew quite well what to do , and in the first place wished for a great deal of beer , and in the second for as much beer as he was able to drink , and in the third for a barrel of beer into the bargain"
Many a time he thought he had found it , but then it seemed to him to be , after all , too little.
Then it came into his mind , what an easy life his wife had , for she stayed at home in a cool room and enjoyed herself.
This really did vex him , and before he was aware , he said , `` I just wish she was sitting there on this saddle , and could not get off it , instead of my having to drag it along on my back"
And as the last word was spoken , the saddle disappeared from his back , and he saw that his second wish had been fulfilled.
Then he really did feel warm.
He began to run and wanted to be quite alone in his own room at home , to think of something really large for his last wish.
But when he arrived there and opened the parlour-door , he saw his wife sitting in the middle of the room on the saddle , crying and complaining , and quite unable to get off it.
So he said , `` Do bear it , and I will wish for all the riches on earth for thee , only stay where thou art"
She , however , called him a fool , and said , `` What good will all the riches on earth do me , if I am to sit on this saddle ? Thou hast wished me on it , so thou must help me off"
So whether he would or not , he was forced to let his third wish be that she should be quit of the saddle , and able to get off it , and immediately the wish was fulfilled.
So he got nothing by it but vexation , trouble , abuse , and the loss of his horse ; but the poor people lived happily , quietly , and piously until their happy death"
There was once on a time a man who was about to set out on a long journey , and on parting he asked his three daughters what he should bring back with him for them.
Whereupon the eldest wished for pearls , the second wished for diamonds , but the third said , `` Dear father , I should like a singing , soaring lark"
The father said , `` Yes , if I can get it , you shall have it ,"
kissed all three , and set out.
Now when the time had come for him to be on his way home again , he had brought pearls and diamonds for the two eldest , but he had sought everywhere in vain for a singing , soaring lark for the youngest , and he was very unhappy about it , for she was his favorite child.
Then his road lay through a forest , and in the midst of it was a splendid castle , and near the castle stood a tree , but quite on the top of the tree , he saw a singing , soaring lark.
`` Aha , you come just at the right moment !"
he said , quite delighted , and called to his servant to climb up and catch the little creature.
But as he approached the tree , a lion leapt from beneath it , shook himself , and roared till the leaves on the trees trembled.
`` He who tries to steal my singing , soaring lark ,"
he cried , `` will I devour"
Then the man said , `` I did not know that the bird belonged to thee.
I will make amends for the wrong I have done and ransom myself with a large sum of money , only spare my life"
The lion said , `` Nothing can save thee , unless thou wilt promise to give me for mine own what first meets thee on thy return home ; and if thou wilt do that , I will grant thee thy life , and thou shalt have the bird for thy daughter , into the bargain"
But the man hesitated and said , `` That might be my youngest daughter , she loves me best , and always runs to meet me on my return home"
The servant , however , was terrified and said , `` Why should your daughter be the very one to meet you , it might as easily be a cat , or dog ?"
Then the man allowed himself to be over-persuaded , took the singing , soaring lark , and promised to give the lion whatsoever should first meet him on his return home.
When he reached home and entered his house , the first who met him was no other than his youngest and dearest daughter , who came running up , kissed and embraced him , and when she saw that he had brought with him a singing , soaring lark , she was beside herself with joy.
The father , however , could not rejoice , but began to weep , and said , `` My dearest child , I have bought the little bird dear.
In return for it , I have been obliged to promise thee to a savage lion , and when he has thee he will tear thee in pieces and devour thee ,"
and he told her all , just as it had happened , and begged her not to go there , come what might.
But she consoled him and said , `` Dearest father , indeed your promise must be fulfilled.
I will go thither and soften the lion , so that I may return to thee safely"
Next morning she had the road pointed out to her , took leave , and went fearlessly out into the forest.
The lion , however , was an enchanted prince and was by day a lion , and all his people were lions with him , but in the night they resumed their natural human shapes.
On her arrival she was kindly received and led into the castle.
When night came , the lion turned into a handsome man , and their wedding was celebrated with great magnificence.
They lived happily together , remained awake at night , and slept in the daytime.
One day he came and said , `` To-morrow there is a feast in thy father 's house , because your eldest sister is to be married , and if thou art inclined to go there , my lions shall conduct thee"
She said , `` Yes , I should very much like to see my father again ,"
and went thither , accompanied by the lions.
There was great joy when she arrived , for they had all believed that she had been torn in pieces by the lion , and had long ceased to live.
But she told them what a handsome husband she had , and how well off she was , remained with them while the wedding-feast lasted , and then went back again to the forest.
When the second daughter was about to be married , and she was again invited to the wedding , she said to the lion , `` This time I will not be alone , thou must come with me"
The lion , however , said that it was too dangerous for him , for if when there a ray from a burning candle fell on him , he would be changed into a dove , and for seven years long would have to fly about with the doves.
She said , `` Ah , but do come with me , I will take great care of thee , and guard thee from all light"
So they went away together , and took with them their little child as well.
She had a chamber built there , so strong and thick that no ray could pierce through it ; in this he was to shut himself up when the candles were lit for the wedding-feast.
But the door was made of green wood which warped and left a little crack which no one noticed.
The wedding was celebrated with magnificence , but when the procession with all its candles and torches came back from church , and passed by this apartment , a ray about the breadth of a hair fell on the King 's son , and when this ray touched him , he was transformed in an instant , and when she came in and looked for him , she did not see him , but a white dove was sitting there.
The dove said to her , `` For seven years must I fly about the world , but at every seventh step that you take I will let fall a drop of red blood and a white feather , and these will show thee the way , and if thou followest the trace thou canst release me"
Thereupon the dove flew out at the door , and she followed him , and at every seventh step a red drop of blood and a little white feather fell down and showed her the way.
So she went continually further and further in the wide world , never looking about her or resting , and the seven years were almost past ; then she rejoiced and thought that they would soon be delivered , and yet they were so far from it ! Once when they were thus moving onwards , no little feather and no drop of red blood fell , and when she raised her eyes the dove had disappeared.
And as she thought to herself , `` In this no man can help thee ,"
she climbed up to the sun , and said to him , `` Thou shinest into every crevice , and over every peak , hast thou not seen a white dove flying ?"
`` No ,"
said the sun , `` I have seen none , but I present thee with a casket , open it when thou art in sorest need"
Then she thanked the sun , and went on until evening came and the moon appeared ; she then asked her , `` Thou shinest the whole night through , and on every field and forest , hast thou not seen a white dove flying ?"
`` No ,"
said the moon , `` I have seen no dove , but here I give thee an egg , break it when thou art in great need"
She thanked the moon , and went on until the night wind came up and blew on her , then she said to it , `` Thou blowest over every tree and under every leaf , hast thou not seen a white dove flying ?"
`` No ,"
said the night wind , `` I have seen none , but I will ask the three other winds , perhaps they have seen it"
The east wind and the west wind came , and had seen nothing , but the south wind said , `` I have seen the white dove , it has flown to the Red Sea , where it has become a lion again , for the seven years are over , and the lion is there fighting with a dragon ; the dragon , however , is an enchanted princess"
The night wind then said to her , `` I will advise thee ; go to the Red Sea , on the right bank are some tall reeds , count them , break off the eleventh , and strike the dragon with it , then the lion will be able to subdue it , and both then will regain their human form.
After that , look round and thou wilt see the griffin which is by the Red Sea ; swing thyself , with thy beloved , on to his back , and the bird will carry you over the sea to your own home.
Here is a nut for thee , when thou are above the center of the sea , let the nut fall , it will immediately shoot up , and a tall nut-tree will grow out of the water on which the griffin may rest ; for if he can not rest , he will not be strong enough to carry you across , and if thou forgettest to throw down the nut , he will let you fall into the sea"
Then she went thither , and found everything as the night wind had said.
She counted the reeds by the sea , and cut off the eleventh , struck the dragon therewith , whereupon the lion overcame it , and immediately both of them regained their human shapes.
But when the princess , who had before been the dragon , was delivered from enchantment , she took the youth by the arm , seated herself on the griffin , and carried him off with her.
There stood the poor maiden who had wandered so far and was again forsaken.
She sat down and cried , but at last she took courage and said , `` Still I will go as far as the wind blows and as long as the cock crows , until I find him ,"
and she went forth by long , long roads , until at last she came to the castle where both of them were living together ; there she heard that soon a feast was to be held , in which they would celebrate their wedding , but she said , `` God still helps me ,"
and opened the casket that the sun had given her.
A dress lay therein as brilliant as the sun itself.
So she took it out and put it on , and went up into the castle , and everyone , even the bride herself , looked at her with astonishment.
The dress pleased the bride so well that she thought it might do for her wedding-dress , and asked if it was for sale ? `` Not for money or land ,"
answered she , `` but for flesh and blood"
The bride asked her what she meant by that , so she said , `` Let me sleep a night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleeps"
The bride would not , yet wanted very much to have the dress ; at last she consented , but the page was to give the prince a sleeping-draught.
When it was night , therefore , and the youth was already asleep , she was led into the chamber ; she seated herself on the bed and said , `` I have followed after thee for seven years.
I have been to the sun and the moon , and the four winds , and have enquired for thee , and have helped thee against the dragon ; wilt thou , then quite forget me ?"
But the prince slept so soundly that it only seemed to him as if the wind were whistling outside in the fir-trees.
When therefore day broke , she was led out again , and had to give up the golden dress.
And as that even had been of no avail , she was sad , went out into a meadow , sat down there , and wept.
While she was sitting there , she thought of the egg which the moon had given her ; she opened it , and there came out a clucking hen with twelve chickens all of gold , and they ran about chirping , and crept again under the old hen 's wings ; nothing more beautiful was ever seen in the world ! Then she arose , and drove them through the meadow before her , until the bride looked out of the window.
The little chickens pleased her so much that she immediately came down and asked if they were for sale.
`` Not for money or land , but for flesh and blood ; let me sleep another night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleeps"
The bride said , `` Yes ,"
intending to cheat her as on the former evening.
But when the prince went to bed he asked the page what the murmuring and rustling in the night had been ? On this the page told all ; that he had been forced to give him a sleeping-draught , because a poor girl had slept secretly in the chamber , and that he was to give him another that night.
The prince said , `` Pour out the draught by the bed-side"
At night , she was again led in , and when she began to relate how ill all had fared with her , he immediately recognized his beloved wife by her voice , sprang up and cried , `` Now I really am released ! I have been as it were in a dream , for the strange princess has bewitched me so that I have been compelled to forget thee , but God has delivered me from the spell at the right time"
Then they both left the castle secretly in the night , for they feared the father of the princess , who was a sorcerer , and they seated themselves on the griffin which bore them across the Red Sea , and when they were in the midst of it , she let fall the nut.
Immediately a tall nut-tree grew up , whereon the bird rested , and then carried them home , where they found their child , who had grown tall and beautiful , and they lived thenceforth happily until their death"
Little brother took his little sister by the hand and said , `` Since our mother died we have had no happiness ; our step-mother beats us every day , and if we come near her she kicks us away with her foot.
Our meals are the hard crusts of bread that are left over ; and the little dog under the table is better off , for she often throws it a nice bit.
May Heaven pity us.
If our mother only knew ! Come , we will go forth together into the wide world"
They walked the whole day over meadows , fields , and stony places ; and when it rained the little sister said , `` Heaven and our hearts are weeping together"
In the evening they came to a large forest , and they were so weary with sorrow and hunger and the long walk , that they lay down in a hollow tree and fell asleep.
The next day when they awoke , the sun was already high in the sky , and shone down hot into the tree.
Then the brother said , `` Sister , I am thirsty ; if I knew of a little brook I would go and just take a drink ; I think I hear one running"
The brother got up and took the little sister by the hand , and they set off to find the brook.
But the wicked step-mother was a witch , and had seen how the two children had gone away , and had crept after them privily , as witches do creep , and had bewitched all the brooks in the forest.
Now when they found a little brook leaping brightly over the stones , the brother was going to drink out of it , but the sister heard how it said as it ran , `` Who drinks of me will be a tiger ; who drinks of me will be a tiger"
Then the sister cried , `` Pray , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a wild beast , and tear me to pieces"
The brother did not drink , although he was so thirsty , but said , `` I will wait for the next spring"
When they came to the next brook the sister heard this also say , `` Who drinks of me will be a wolf ; who drinks of me will be a wolf"
Then the sister cried out , `` Pray , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a wolf , and devour me"
The brother did not drink , and said , `` I will wait until we come to the next spring , but then I must drink , say what you like ; for my thirst is too great"
And when they came to the third brook the sister heard how it said as it ran , `` Who drinks of me will be a roebuck ; who drinks of me will be a roebuck"
The sister said , `` Oh , I pray you , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a roebuck , and run away from me"
But the brother had knelt down at once by the brook , and had bent down and drunk some of the water , and as soon as the first drops touched his lips he lay there a young roebuck.
And now the sister wept over her poor bewitched brother , and the little roe wept also , and sat sorrowfully near to her.
But at last the girl said , `` Be quiet , dear little roe , I will never , never leave you"
Then she untied her golden garter and put it round the roebuck 's neck , and she plucked rushes and wove them into a soft cord.
With this she tied the little beast and led it on , and she walked deeper and deeper into the forest.
And when they had gone a very long way they came at last to a little house , and the girl looked in ; and as it was empty , she thought , `` We can stay here and live"
Then she sought for leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the roe ; and every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for herself , and brought tender grass for the roe , who ate out of her hand , and was content and played round about her.
In the evening , when the sister was tired , and had said her prayer , she laid her head upon the roebuck 's back : that was her pillow , and she slept softly on it.
And if only the brother had had his human form it would have been a delightful life.
For some time they were alone like this in the wilderness.
But it happened that the person_0 of the country held a great hunt in the forest.
Then the blasts of the horns , the barking of dogs , and the merry shouts of the huntsmen rang through the trees , and the roebuck heard all , and was only too anxious to be there.
`` Oh ,"
said he , to his sister , `` let me be off to the hunt , I can not bear it any longer ;"
and he begged so much that at last she agreed.
`` But ,"
said she to him , `` come back to me in the evening ; I must shut my door for fear of the rough huntsmen , so knock and say , ` My little sister , let me in ! ' that I may know you ; and if you do not say that , I shall not open the door"
Then the young roebuck sprang away ; so happy was he and so merry in the open air.
The person_0 and the huntsmen saw the pretty creature , and started after him , but they could not catch him , and when they thought that they surely had him , away he sprang through the bushes and could not be seen.
When it was dark he ran to the cottage , knocked , and said , `` My little sister , let me in"
Then the door was opened for him , and he jumped in , and rested himself the whole night through upon his soft bed.
The next day the hunt went on afresh , and when the roebuck again heard the bugle-horn , and the ho ! ho ! of the huntsmen , he had no peace , but said , `` Sister , let me out , I must be off"
His sister opened the door for him , and said , `` But you must be here again in the evening and say your pass-word"
When the person_0 and his huntsmen again saw the young roebuck with the golden collar , they all chased him , but he was too quick and nimble for them.
This went on for the whole day , but at last by the evening the huntsmen had surrounded him , and one of them wounded him a little in the foot , so that he limped and ran slowly.
Then a hunter crept after him to the cottage and heard how he said , `` My little sister , let me in ,"
and saw that the door was opened for him , and was shut again at once.
The huntsman took notice of it all , and went to the person_0 and told him what he had seen and heard.
Then the person_0 said , `` To-morrow we will hunt once more"
The little sister , however , was dreadfully frightened when she saw that her fawn was hurt.
She washed the blood off him , laid herbs on the wound , and said , `` Go to your bed , dear roe , that you may get well again"
But the wound was so slight that the roebuck , next morning , did not feel it any more.
And when he again heard the sport outside , he said , `` I can not bear it , I must be there ; they shall not find it so easy to catch me"
The sister cried , and said , `` This time they will kill you , and here am I alone in the forest and forsaken by all the world.
I will not let you out"
`` Then you will have me die of grief ,"
answered the roe ; `` when I hear the bugle-horns I feel as if I must jump out of my skin"
Then the sister could not do otherwise , but opened the door for him with a heavy heart , and the roebuck , full of health and joy , bounded into the forest.
When the person_0 saw him , he said to his huntsmen , `` Now chase him all day long till night-fall , but take care that no one does him any harm"
As soon as the sun had set , the person_0 said to the huntsman , `` Now come and show me the cottage in the wood ;"
and when he was at the door , he knocked and called out , `` Dear little sister , let me in"
Then the door opened , and the person_0 walked in , and there stood a maiden more lovely than any he had ever seen.
The maiden was frightened when she saw , not her little roe , but a man come in who wore a golden crown upon his head.
But the person_0 looked kindly at her , stretched out his hand , and said , `` Will you go with me to my palace and be my dear wife ?"
`` Yes , indeed ,"
answered the maiden , `` but the little roe must go with me , I can not leave him"
The person_0 said , `` It shall stay with you as long as you live , and shall want nothing"
Just then he came running in , and the sister again tied him with the cord of rushes , took it in her own hand , and went away with the person_0 from the cottage.
The person_0 took the lovely maiden upon his horse and carried her to his palace , where the wedding was held with great pomp.
She was now the Queen , and they lived for a long time happily together ; the roebuck was tended and cherished , and ran about in the palace-garden.
But the wicked step-mother , because of whom the children had gone out into the world , thought all the time that the sister had been torn to pieces by the wild beasts in the wood , and that the brother had been shot for a roebuck by the huntsmen.
Now when she heard that they were so happy , and so well off , envy and hatred rose in her heart and left her no peace , and she thought of nothing but how she could bring them again to misfortune.
Her own daughter , who was ugly as night , and had only one eye , grumbled at her and said , `` A Queen ! that ought to have been my luck"
`` Only be quiet ,"
answered the old woman , and comforted her by saying , `` when the time comes I shall be ready"
As time went on , the Queen had a pretty little boy , and it happened that the person_0 was out hunting ; so the old witch took the form of the chamber-maid , went into the room where the Queen lay , and said to her , `` Come , the bath is ready ; it will do you good , and give you fresh strength ; make haste before it gets cold"
The daughter also was close by ; so they carried the weakly Queen into the bath-room , and put her into the bath ; then they shut the door and ran away.
But in the bath-room they had made a fire of such deadly heat that the beautiful young Queen was soon suffocated.
When this was done the old woman took her daughter , put a nightcap on her head , and laid her in bed in place of the Queen.
She gave her too the shape and the look of the Queen , only she could not make good the lost eye.
But in order that the person_0 might not see it , she was to lie on the side on which she had no eye.
In the evening when he came home and heard that he had a son he was heartily glad , and was going to the bed of his dear wife to see how she was.
But the old woman quickly called out , `` For your life leave the curtains closed ; the Queen ought not to see the light yet , and must have rest"
The person_0 went away , and did not find out that a false Queen was lying in the bed.
But at midnight , when all slept , the nurse , who was sitting in the nursery by the cradle , and who was the only person awake , saw the door open and the true Queen walk in.
She took the child out of the cradle , laid it on her arm , and suckled it.
Then she shook up its pillow , laid the child down again , and covered it with the little quilt.
And she did not forget the roebuck , but went into the corner where it lay , and stroked its back.
Then she went quite silently out of the door again.
The next morning the nurse asked the guards whether anyone had come into the palace during the night , but they answered , `` No , we have seen no one"
She came thus many nights and never spoke a word : the nurse always saw her , but she did not dare to tell anyone about it.
When some time had passed in this manner , the Queen began to speak in the night , and said -- `` How fares my child , how fares my roe ? Twice shall I come , then never more"
The nurse did not answer , but when the Queen had gone again , went to the person_0 and told him all.
The person_0 said , `` Ah , heavens ! what is this ? To-morrow night I will watch by the child"
In the evening he went into the nursery , and at midnight the Queen again appeared and said -- `` How fares my child , how fares my roe ? Once will I come , then never more"
And she nursed the child as she was wont to do before she disappeared.
The person_0 dared not speak to her , but on the next night he watched again.
Then she said -- `` How fares my child , how fares my roe ? This time I come , then never more"
Then the person_0 could not restrain himself ; he sprang towards her , and said , `` You can be none other than my dear wife"
She answered , `` Yes , I am your dear wife ,"
and at the same moment she received life again , and by God 's grace became fresh , rosy , and full of health.
Then she told the person_0 the evil deed which the wicked witch and her daughter had been guilty of towards her.
The person_0 ordered both to be led before the judge , and judgment was delivered against them.
The daughter was taken into the forest where she was torn to pieces by wild beasts , but the witch was cast into the fire and miserably burnt.
And as soon as she was burnt the roebuck changed his shape , and received his human form again , so the sister and brother lived happily together all their lives"
A certain miller had little by little fallen into poverty , and had nothing left but his mill and a large apple-tree behind it.
Once when he had gone into the forest to fetch wood , an old man stepped up to him whom he had never seen before , and said , `` Why dost thou plague thyself with cutting wood , I will make thee rich , if thou wilt promise me what is standing behind thy mill ?"
`` What can that be but my apple-tree ?"
thought the miller , and said , `` Yes ,"
and gave a written promise to the stranger.
He , however , laughed mockingly and said , `` When three years have passed , I will come and carry away what belongs to me ,"
and then he went.
When the miller got home , his wife came to meet him and said , `` Tell me , miller , from whence comes this sudden wealth into our house ? All at once every box and chest was filled ; no one brought it in , and I know not how it happened"
He answered , `` It comes from a stranger who met me in the forest , and promised me great treasure.
I , in return , have promised him what stands behind the mill ; we can very well give him the big apple-tree for it"
`` Ah , husband ,"
said the terrified wife , `` that must have been the devil ! He did not mean the apple-tree , but our daughter , who was standing behind the mill sweeping the yard"
The miller 's daughter was a beautiful , pious girl , and lived through the three years in the fear of God and without sin.
When therefore the time was over , and the day came when the Evil-one was to fetch her , she washed herself clean , and made a circle round herself with chalk.
The devil appeared quite early , but he could not come near to her.
Angrily , he said to the miller , `` Take all water away from her , that she may no longer be able to wash herself , for otherwise I have no power over her"
The miller was afraid , and did so.
The next morning the devil came again , but she had wept on her hands , and they were quite clean.
Again he could not get near her , and furiously said to the miller , `` Cut her hands off , or else I can not get the better of her"
The miller was shocked and answered , `` How could I cut off my own child 's hands ?"
Then the Evil-one threatened him and said , `` If thou dost not do it thou art mine , and I will take thee thyself"
The father became alarmed , and promised to obey him.
So he went to the girl and said , `` My child , if I do not cut off both thine hands , the devil will carry me away , and in my terror I have promised to do it.
Help me in my need , and forgive me the harm I do thee"
She replied , `` Dear father , do with me what you will , I am your child"
Thereupon she laid down both her hands , and let them be cut off.
The devil came for the third time , but she had wept so long and so much on the stumps , that after all they were quite clean.
Then he had to give in , and had lost all right over her.
The miller said to her , `` I have by means of thee received such great wealth that I will keep thee most delicately as long as thou livest"
But she replied , `` Here I can not stay , I will go forth , compassionate people will give me as much as I require"
Thereupon she caused her maimed arms to be bound to her back , and by sunrise she set out on her way , and walked the whole day until night fell.
Then she came to a royal garden , and by the shimmering of the moon she saw that trees covered with beautiful fruits grew in it , but she could not enter , for there was much water round about it.
And as she had walked the whole day and not eaten one mouthful , and hunger tormented her , she thought , `` Ah , if I were but inside , that I might eat of the fruit , else must I die of hunger !"
Then she knelt down , called on God the Lord , and prayed.
And suddenly an angel came towards her , who made a dam in the water , so that the moat became dry and she could walk through it.
And now she went into the garden and the angel went with her.
She saw a tree covered with beautiful pears , but they were all counted.
Then she went to them , and to still her hunger , ate one with her mouth from the tree , but no more.
The gardener was watching ; but as the angel was standing by , he was afraid and thought the maiden was a spirit , and was silent , neither did he dare to cry out , or to speak to the spirit.
When she had eaten the pear , she was satisfied , and went and concealed herself among the bushes.
The person_0 to whom the garden belonged , came down to it next morning , and counted , and saw that one of the pears was missing , and asked the gardener what had become of it , as it was not lying beneath the tree , but was gone.
Then answered the gardener , `` Last night , a spirit came in , who had no hands , and ate off one of the pears with its mouth"
The person_0 said , `` How did the spirit get over the water , and where did it go after it had eaten the pear ?"
The gardener answered , `` Some one came in a snow-white garment from heaven who made a dam , and kept back the water , that the spirit might walk through the moat.
And as it must have been an angel , I was afraid , and asked no questions , and did not cry out.
When the spirit had eaten the pear , it went back again"
The person_0 said , `` If it be as thou sayest , I will watch with thee to-night"
When it grew dark the person_0 came into the garden and brought a priest with him , who was to speak to the spirit.
All three seated themselves beneath the tree and watched.
At midnight the maiden came creeping out of the thicket , went to the tree , and again ate one pear off it with her mouth , and beside her stood the angel in white garments.
Then the priest went out to them and said , `` Comest thou from heaven or from earth ? Art thou a spirit , or a human being ?"
She replied , `` I am no spirit , but an unhappy mortal deserted by all but God"
The person_0 said , `` If thou art forsaken by all the world , yet will I not forsake thee"
He took her with him into his royal palace , and as she was so beautiful and good , he loved her with all his heart , had silver hands made for her , and took her to wife.
After a year the person_0 had to take the field , so he commended his young Queen to the care of his mother and said , `` If she is brought to bed take care of her , nurse her well , and tell me of it at once in a letter"
Then she gave birth to a fine boy.
So the old mother made haste to write and announce the joyful news to him.
But the messenger rested by a brook on the way , and as he was fatigued by the great distance , he fell asleep.
Then came the Devil , who was always seeking to injure the good Queen , and exchanged the letter for another , in which was written that the Queen had brought a monster into the world.
When the person_0 read the letter he was shocked and much troubled , but he wrote in answer that they were to take great care of the Queen and nurse her well until his arrival.
The messenger went back with the letter , but rested at the same place and again fell asleep.
Then came the Devil once more , and put a different letter in his pocket , in which it was written that they were to put the Queen and her child to death.
The old mother was terribly shocked when she received the letter , and could not believe it.
She wrote back again to the person_0 , but received no other answer , because each time the Devil substituted a false letter , and in the last letter it was also written that she was to preserve the Queen 's tongue and eyes as a token that she had obeyed.
But the old mother wept to think such innocent blood was to be shed , and had a hind brought by night and cut out her tongue and eyes , and kept them.
Then said she to the Queen , `` I can not have thee killed as the person_0 commands , but here thou mayst stay no longer.
Go forth into the wide world with thy child , and never come here again"
The poor woman tied her child on her back , and went away with eyes full of tears.
She came into a great wild forest , and then she fell on her knees and prayed to God , and the angel of the Lord appeared to her and led her to a little house on which was a sign with the words , `` Here all dwell free"
A snow-white maiden came out of the little house and said , `` Welcome , Lady Queen ,"
and conducted her inside.
Then they unbound the little boy from her back , and held him to her breast that he might feed , and laid him in a beautifully-made little bed.
Then said the poor woman , `` From whence knowest thou that I was a queen ?"
The white maiden answered , `` I am an angel sent by God , to watch over thee and thy child"
The Queen stayed seven years in the little house , and was well cared for , and by God 's grace , because of her piety , her hands which had been cut off , grew once more.
At last the person_0 came home again from the war , and his first wish was to see his wife and the child.
Then his aged mother began to weep and said , `` Thou wicked man , why didst thou write to me that I was to take those two innocent lives ?"
and she showed him the two letters which the Evil-one had forged , and then continued , `` I did as thou badest me ,"
and she showed the tokens , the tongue and eyes.
Then the person_0 began to weep for his poor wife and his little son so much more bitterly than she was doing , that the aged mother had compassion on him and said , `` Be at peace , she still lives ; I secretly caused a hind to be killed , and took these tokens from it ; but I bound the child to thy wife 's back and bade her go forth into the wide world , and made her promise never to come back here again , because thou wert so angry with her"
Then spoke the person_0 , `` I will go as far as the sky is blue , and will neither eat nor drink until I have found again my dear wife and my child , if in the meantime they have not been killed , or died of hunger"
Thereupon the person_0 traveled about for seven long years , and sought her in every cleft of the rocks and in every cave , but he found her not , and thought she had died of want.
During the whole of this time he neither ate nor drank , but God supported him.
At length he came into a great forest , and found therein the little house whose sign was , `` Here all dwell free"
Then forth came the white maiden , took him by the hand , led him in , and said , `` Welcome , Lord person_0 ,"
and asked him from whence he came.
He answered , `` Soon shall I have traveled about for the space of seven years , and I seek my wife and her child , but can not find them"
The angel offered him meat and drink , but he did not take anything , and only wished to rest a little.
Then he lay down to sleep , and put a handkerchief over his face.
Thereupon the angel went into the chamber where the Queen sat with her son , whom she usually called `` Sorrowful ,"
and said to her , `` Go out with thy child , thy husband hath come"
So she went to the place where he lay , and the handkerchief fell from his face.
Then said she , `` Sorrowful , pick up thy father 's handkerchief , and cover his face again"
The child picked it up , and put it over his face again.
The person_0 in his sleep heard what passed , and had pleasure in letting the handkerchief fall once more.
But the child grew impatient , and said , `` Dear mother , how can I cover my father 's face when I have no father in this world ? I have learned to say the prayer , ` Our Father , which art in Heaven , ' thou hast told me that my father was in Heaven , and was the good God , and how can I know a wild man like this ? He is not my father"
When the person_0 heard that , he got up , and asked who they were.
Then said she , `` I am thy wife , and that is thy son , Sorrowful"
And he saw her living hands , and said , `` My wife had silver hands"
She answered , `` The good God has caused my natural hands to grow again ;"
and the angel went into the inner room , and brought the silver hands , and showed them to him.
Hereupon he knew for a certainty that it was his dear wife and his dear child , and he kissed them , and was glad , and said , `` A heavy stone has fallen from off mine heart"
Then the angel of God gave them one meal with her , and after that they went home to the person_0 's aged mother.
There were great rejoicings everywhere , and the person_0 and Queen were married again , and lived contentedly to their happy end"
WE 'RE told , that once a cobbler , BLASE by name ; A wife had got , whose charms so high in fame ; But as it happened , that their cash was spent , The honest couple to a neighbor went , A corn-factor by trade , not overwise To whom they stated facts without disguise ; And begged , with falt ` ring voice denoting care , That he , of wheat , would half a measure spare , Upon their note , which readily he gave , And all advantages desired to wave.
THE time for payment came ; the money used ; The cash our factor would not be refused ; Of writs he talked , attorneys , and distress ; The reason : -- heav ` n can tell , and you may guess ; In short , 'twas clear our gay gallant desired , To cheer the wife , whose beauty all admired.
SAID he , what anxiously I wish to get , You 've plenty stored , and never wanted yet ; You surely know my meaning ? -- Yes , she cried ; I 'll turn it in my mind , and we 'll decide How best to act.
Away she quickly flew , And Blase informed , what Ninny had in view.
Zounds ! said the cobbler , we must see , my dear , To hook this little sum : -- the way is clear ; No risk I 'm confident ; for prithee run And tell him I 've a journey just begun ; That he may hither come and have his will ; But ` ere he touch thy lips , demand the bill ; He 'll not refuse the boon I 'm very sure ; Meantime , myself I 'll hide and all secure.
The note obtained , cough loudly , strong , and clear ; Twice let it be , that I may plainly hear ; Then forth I 'll sally from my lurking place , And , spite of folly 's frowns , prevent disgrace.
THE plot succeeded as the pair desired ; The cobbler laughed , and ALL his scheme admired : A purse-proud cit thereon observed and swore ; ` Twere better to have coughed when all was o ` er ; Then you , all three , would have enjoyed your wish , And been in future all as mute as fish.
OH ! sir , replied the cobbler 's wife at ease , Do you suppose that use can hope to please , And like your ladies full of sense appear ? -LRB- For two were seated with his wedded dear ; -RRB- Perhaps my lady 'd act as you describe , But ev ` ry one such prudence do n't imbibe"
There was once a widow who had two daughters -- one of whom was pretty and industrious , whilst the other was ugly and idle.
But she was much fonder of the ugly and idle one , because she was her own daughter ; and the other , who was a step-daughter , was obliged to do all the work , and be the Cinderella of the house.
Every day the poor girl had to sit by a well , in the highway , and spin and spin till her fingers bled.
Now it happened that one day the shuttle was marked with her blood , so she dipped it in the well , to wash the mark off ; but it dropped out of her hand and fell to the bottom.
She began to weep , and ran to her step-mother and told her of the mishap.
But she scolded her sharply , and was so merciless as to say , `` Since you have let the shuttle fall in , you must fetch it out again"
So the girl went back to the well , and did not know what to do ; and in the sorrow of her heart she jumped into the well to get the shuttle.
She lost her senses ; and when she awoke and came to herself again , she was in a lovely meadow where the sun was shining and many thousands of flowers were growing.
Along this meadow she went , and at last came to a baker 's oven full of bread , and the bread cried out , `` Oh , take me out ! take me out ! or I shall burn ; I have been baked a long time !"
So she went up to it , and took out all the loaves one after another with the bread-shovel.
After that she went on till she came to a tree covered with apples , which called out to her , `` Oh , shake me ! shake me ! we apples are all ripe !"
So she shook the tree till the apples fell like rain , and went on shaking till they were all down , and when she had gathered them into a heap , she went on her way.
At last she came to a little house , out of which an old woman peeped ; but she had such large teeth that the girl was frightened , and was about to run away.
But the old woman called out to her , `` What are you afraid of , dear child ? Stay with me ; if you will do all the work in the house properly , you shall be the better for it.
Only you must take care to make my bed well , and shake it thoroughly till the feathers fly -- for then there is snow on the earth.
I am Mother Holle.
As the old woman spoke so kindly to her , the girl took courage and agreed to enter her service.
She attended to everything to the satisfaction of her mistress , and always shook her bed so vigorously that the feathers flew about like snow-flakes.
So she had a pleasant life with her ; never an angry word ; and boiled or roast meat every day.
She stayed some time with Mother Holle , and then she became sad.
At first she did not know what was the matter with her , but found at length that it was home-sickness : although she was many thousand times better off here than at home , still she had a longing to be there.
At last she said to the old woman , `` I have a longing for home ; and however well off I am down here , I can not stay any longer ; I must go up again to my own people"
Mother Holle said , `` I am pleased that you long for your home again , and as you have served me so truly , I myself will take you up again"
Thereupon she took her by the hand , and led her to a large door.
The door was opened , and just as the maiden was standing beneath the doorway , a heavy shower of golden rain fell , and all the gold remained sticking to her , so that she was completely covered over with it.
`` You shall have that because you have been so industrious ,"
said Mother Holle , and at the same time she gave her back the shuttle which she had let fall into the well.
Thereupon the door closed , and the maiden found herself up above upon the earth , not far from her mother 's house.
And as she went into the yard the cock was standing by the well-side , and cried -- `` Cock-a-doodle-doo ! Your golden girl 's come back to you !"
So she went in to her mother , and as she arrived thus covered with gold , she was well received , both by her and her sister.
The girl told all that had happened to her ; and as soon as the mother heard how she had come by so much wealth , she was very anxious to obtain the same good luck for the ugly and lazy daughter.
She had to seat herself by the well and spin ; and in order that her shuttle might be stained with blood , she stuck her hand into a thorn bush and pricked her finger.
Then she threw her shuttle into the well , and jumped in after it.
She came , like the other , to the beautiful meadow and walked along the very same path.
When she got to the oven the bread again cried , `` Oh , take me out ! take me out ! or I shall burn ; I have been baked a long time !"
But the lazy thing answered , `` As if I had any wish to make myself dirty ?"
and on she went.
Soon she came to the apple-tree , which cried , `` Oh , shake me ! shake me ! we apples are all ripe !"
But she answered , `` I like that ! one of you might fall on my head ,"
and so went on.
When she came to Mother Holle 's house she was not afraid , for she had already heard of her big teeth , and she hired herself to her immediately.
The first day she forced herself to work diligently , and obeyed Mother Holle when she told her to do anything , for she was thinking of all the gold that she would give her.
But on the second day she began to be lazy , and on the third day still more so , and then she would not get up in the morning at all.
Neither did she make Mother Holle 's bed as she ought , and did not shake it so as to make the feathers fly up.
Mother Holle was soon tired of this , and gave her notice to leave.
The lazy girl was willing enough to go , and thought that now the golden rain would come.
Mother Holle led her also to the great door ; but while she was standing beneath it , instead of the gold a big kettleful of pitch was emptied over her.
`` That is the reward for your service ,"
said Mother Holle , and shut the door.
So the lazy girl went home ; but she was quite covered with pitch , and the cock by the well-side , as soon as he saw her , cried out -- `` Cock-a-doodle-doo ! Your pitchy girl 's come back to you !"
But the pitch stuck fast to her , and could not be got off as long as she lived"
There was a man who had three sons , the youngest of whom was called Dummling , and was despised , mocked , and put down on every occasion.
It happened that the eldest wanted to go into the forest to hew wood , and before he went his mother gave him a beautiful sweet cake and a bottle of wine in order that he might not suffer from hunger or thirst.
When he entered the forest there met him a little grey-haired old man who bade him good-day , and said , `` Do give me a piece of cake out of your pocket , and let me have a draught of your wine ; I am so hungry and thirsty"
But the prudent youth answered , `` If I give you my cake and wine , I shall have none for myself ; be off with you ,"
and he left the little man standing and went on.
But when he began to hew down a tree , it was not long before he made a false stroke , and the axe cut him in the arm , so that he had to go home and have it bound up.
And this was the little gray man 's doing.
After this the second son went into the forest , and his mother gave him , like the eldest , a cake and a bottle of wine.
The little old gray man met him likewise , and asked him for a piece of cake and a drink of wine.
But the second son , too , said with much reason , `` What I give you will be taken away from myself ; be off !"
and he left the little man standing and went on.
His punishment , however , was not delayed ; when he had made a few strokes at the tree he struck himself in the leg , so that he had to be carried home.
Then Dummling said , `` Father , do let me go and cut wood"
The father answered , `` Your brothers have hurt themselves with it , leave it alone , you do not understand anything about it"
But Dummling begged so long that at last he said , `` Just go then , you will get wiser by hurting yourself"
His mother gave him a cake made with water and baked in the cinders , and with it a bottle of sour beer.
When he came to the forest the little old gray man met him likewise , and greeting him , said , `` Give me a piece of your cake and a drink out of your bottle ; I am so hungry and thirsty"
Dummling answered , `` I have only cinder-cake and sour beer ; if that pleases you , we will sit down and eat"
So they sat down , and when Dummling pulled out his cinder-cake , it was a fine sweet cake , and the sour beer had become good wine.
So they ate and drank , and after that the little man said , `` Since you have a good heart , and are willing to divide what you have , I will give you good luck.
There stands an old tree , cut it down , and you will find something at the roots"
Then the little man took leave of him.
Dummling went and cut down the tree , and when it fell there was a goose sitting in the roots with feathers of pure gold.
He lifted her up , and taking her with him , went to an inn where he thought he would stay the night.
Now the host had three daughters , who saw the goose and were curious to know what such a wonderful bird might be , and would have liked to have one of its golden feathers.
The eldest thought , `` I shall soon find an opportunity of pulling out a feather ,"
and as soon as Dummling had gone out she seized the goose by the wing , but her finger and hand remained sticking fast to it.
The second came soon afterwards , thinking only of how she might get a feather for herself , but she had scarcely touched her sister than she was held fast.
At last the third also came with the like intent , and the others screamed out , `` Keep away ; for goodness ' sake keep away !"
But she did not understand why she was to keep away.
`` The others are there ,"
she thought , `` I may as well be there too ,"
and ran to them ; but as soon as she had touched her sister , she remained sticking fast to her.
So they had to spend the night with the goose.
The next morning Dummling took the goose under his arm and set out , without troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to it.
They were obliged to run after him continually , now left , now right , just as he was inclined to go.
In the middle of the fields the parson met them , and when he saw the procession he said , `` For shame , you good-for-nothing girls , why are you running across the fields after this young man ? is that seemly ?"
At the same time he seized the youngest by the hand in order to pull her away , but as soon as he touched her he likewise stuck fast , and was himself obliged to run behind.
Before long the sexton came by and saw his master , the parson , running behind three girls.
He was astonished at this and called out , `` Hi , your reverence , whither away so quickly ? do not forget that we have a christening to-day !"
and running after him he took him by the sleeve , but was also held fast to it.
Whilst the five were trotting thus one behind the other , two labourers came with their hoes from the fields ; the parson called out to them and begged that they would set him and the sexton free.
But they had scarcely touched the sexton when they were held fast , and now there were seven of them running behind Dummling and the goose.
Soon afterwards he came to a city , where a king ruled who had a daughter who was so serious that no one could make her laugh.
So he had put forth a decree that whosoever should be able to make her laugh should marry her.
When Dummling heard this , he went with his goose and all her train before the King 's daughter , and as soon as she saw the seven people running on and on , one behind the other , she began to laugh quite loudly , and as if she would never leave off.
Thereupon Dummling asked to have her for his wife , and the wedding was celebrated.
After the King 's death , Dummling inherited the kingdom and lived a long time contentedly with his wife"
Two kings ' sons once went out in search of adventures , and fell into a wild , disorderly way of living , so that they never came home again.
The youngest , who was called Simpleton , set out to seek his brothers , but when at length he found them they mocked him for thinking that he with his simplicity could get through the world , when they two could not make their way , and yet were so much cleverer.
They all three traveled away together , and came to an ant-hill.
The two elder wanted to destroy it , to see the little ants creeping about in their terror , and carrying their eggs away , but Simpleton said , `` Leave the creatures in peace ; I will not allow you to disturb them"
Then they went onwards and came to a lake , on which a great number of ducks were swimming.
The two brothers wanted to catch a couple and roast them , but Simpleton would not permit it , and said , `` Leave the creatures in peace , I will not suffer you to kill them"
At length they came to a bee 's nest , in which there was so much honey that it ran out of the trunk of the tree where it was.
The two wanted to make a fire beneath the tree , and suffocate the bees in order to take away the honey , but Simpleton again stopped them and said , `` Leave the creatures in peace , I will not allow you to burn them"
At length the three brothers arrived at a castle where stone horses were standing in the stables , and no human being was to be seen , and they went through all the halls until , quite at the end , they came to a door in which were three locks.
In the middle of the door , however , there was a little pane , through which they could see into the room.
There they saw a little gray man , who was sitting at a table.
They called him , once , twice , but he did not hear ; at last they called him for the third time , when he got up , opened the locks , and came out.
He said nothing , however , but conducted them to a handsomely-spread table , and when they had eaten and drunk , he took each of them to a bedroom.
Next morning the little gray man came to the eldest , beckoned to him , and conducted him to a stone table , on which were inscribed three tasks , by the performance of which the castle could be delivered.
The first was that in the forest , beneath the moss , lay the princess 's pearls , a thousand in number , which must be picked up , and if by sunset one single pearl was wanting , he who had looked for them would be turned into stone.
The eldest went thither , and sought the whole day , but when it came to an end , he had only found one hundred , and what was written on the table came to pass , and he was changed into stone.
Next day , the second brother undertook the adventure ; it did not , however , fare much better with him than with the eldest ; he did not find more than two hundred pearls , and was changed to stone.
At last the turn came to Simpleton also , who sought in the moss.
It was , however , so hard to find the pearls , and he got on so slowly , that he seated himself on a stone , and wept.
And while he was thus sitting , the King of the ants whose life he had once saved , came with five thousand ants , and before long the little creatures had got all the pearls together , and laid them in a heap.
The second task , however , was to fetch out of the lake the key of the King 's daughter 's bed-chamber.
When Simpleton came to the lake , the ducks which he had saved , swam up to him , dived down , and brought the key out of the water.
But the third task was the most difficult ; from amongst the three sleeping daughters of the King was the youngest and dearest to be sought out.
They , however , resembled each other exactly , and were only to be distinguished by their having eaten different sweetmeats before they fell asleep ; the eldest a bit of sugar ; the second a little syrup ; and the youngest a spoonful of honey.
Then the Queen of the bees , which Simpleton had protected from the fire , came and tasted the lips of all three , and at last she remained sitting on the mouth which had eaten honey , and thus the King 's son recognized the right princess.
Then the enchantment was at an end ; everything was released from sleep , and those who had been turned to stone received once more their natural forms.
Simpleton married the youngest and sweetest princess , and after her father 's death became King , and his two brothers received the two other sisters"
by Brothers Grimm A girl from Brakel once went to St.
Anne 's Chapel at the foot of the Hinnenberg , and as she wanted to have a husband , and thought there was no one else in the chapel , she sang , `` Oh , holy Saint Anne ! Help me soon to a man.
Thou know ` st him right well , By Suttmer gate does he dwell , His hair it is golden , Thou know ` st him right well"
The clerk , however , was standing behind the altar and heard that , so he cried in a very gruff voice , `` Thou shalt not have him ! Thou shalt not have him !"
The maiden thought that the child Mary who stood by her mother Anne had called out that to her , and was angry , and cried , `` Fiddle de dee , conceited thing , hold your tongue , and let your mother speak !"
WHEN Sister Jane , who had produced a child , In prayer and penance all her hours beguiled Her sister-nuns around the lattice pressed ; On which the abbess thus her flock addressed : Live like our sister Jane , and bid adieu To worldly cares : -- have better things in view.
YES , they replied , we sage like her shall be , When we with love have equally been free"
Between Werrel and Soist there lived a man whose name was Knoist , and he had three sons.
One was blind , the other lame , and the third stark-naked.
Once on a time they went into a field , and there they saw a hare.
The blind one shot it , the lame one caught it , the naked one put it in his pocket.
Then they came to a mighty big lake , on which there were three boats , one sailed , one sank , the third had no bottom to it.
They all three got into the one with no bottom to it.
Then they came to a mighty big forest in which there was a mighty big tree ; in the tree was a mighty big chapel in the chapel was a sexton made of beech-wood and a box-wood parson , who dealt out holy-water with cudgels.
`` How truly happy is that one Who can from holy water run !"
It was far in January , and a terrible fall of snow was pelting down.
The snow eddied through the streets and lanes ; the window-panes seemed plastered with snow on the outside ; snow plumped down in masses from the roofs : and a sudden hurry had seized on the people , for they ran , and flew , and fell into each others ' arms , and as they clutched each other fast for a moment , they felt that they were safe at least for that length of time.
Coaches and horses seemed frosted with sugar.
The footmen stood with their backs against the carriages , so as to turn their faces from the wind.
The foot passengers kept in the shelter of the carriages , which could only move slowly on in the deep snow ; and when the storm at last abated , and a narrow path was swept clean alongside the houses , the people stood still in this path when they met , for none liked to take the first step aside into the deep snow to let the other pass him.
Thus they stood silent and motionless , till , as if by tacit consent , each sacrificed one leg , and stepping aside , buried it in the deep snow-heap.
Towards evening it grew calm.
The sky looked as if it had been swept , and had become more lofty and transparent.
The stars looked as if they were quite new , and some of them were amazingly bright and pure.
It froze so hard that the snow creaked , and the upper rind of snow might well have grown hard enough to bear the sparrows in the morning dawn.
These little birds hopped up and down where the sweeping had been done ; but they found very little food , and were not a little cold.
`` Piep !"
said one of them to another ; `` they call this a new year , and it is worse than the last ! We might just as well have kept the old one.
I 'm dissatisfied , and I 've a right to be so"
`` Yes ; and the people ran about and fired off shots to celebrate the new year ,"
said a little shivering sparrow ; `` and they threw pans and pots against the doors , and were quite boisterous with joy , because the old year was gone.
I was glad of it too , because I hoped we should have had warm days ; but that has come to nothing -- it freezes much harder than before.
People have made a mistake in reckoning the time !"
`` That they have !"
a third put in , who was old , and had a white poll ; `` they 've something they call the calendar -- it 's an invention of their own -- and everything is to be arranged according to that ; but it wo n't do.
When spring comes , then the year begins , and I reckon according to that"
`` But when will spring come ?"
the others inquired.
`` It will come when the stork comes back.
But his movements are very uncertain , and here in town no one knows anything about it : in the country they are better informed.
Shall we fly out there and wait ? There , at any rate , we shall be nearer to spring"
`` Yes , that may be all very well ,"
observed one of the sparrows , who had been hopping about for a long time , chirping , without saying anything decided.
`` I 've found a few comforts here in town , which I am afraid I should miss out in the country.
Near this neighborhood , in a courtyard , there lives a family of people , who have taken the very sensible notion of placing three or four flower-pots against the wall , with their mouths all turned inwards , and the bottom of each pointing outwards.
In each flower-pot a hole has been cut , big enough for me to fly in and out at it.
I and my husband have built a nest in one of those pots , and have brought up our young family there.
The family of people of course made the whole arrangement that they might have the pleasure of seeing us , or else they would not have done it.
To please themselves they also strew crumbs of bread ; and so we have food , and are in a manner provided for.
So I think my husband and I will stay where we are , although we are very dissatisfied -- but we shall stay"
`` And we will fly into the country to see if spring is not coming !"
And away they flew.
Out in the country it was hard winter , and the glass was a few degrees lower than in the town.
The sharp winds swept across the snow-covered fields.
The farmer , muffled in warm mittens , sat in his sledge , and beat his arms across his breast to warm himself , and the whip lay across his knees.
The horses ran till they smoked again.
The snow creaked , and the sparrows hopped about in the ruts , and shivered , `` Piep ! when will spring come ? it is very long in coming !"
`` Very long ,"
sounded from the next snow-covered hill , far over the field.
It might be the echo which was heard ; or perhaps the words were spoken by yonder wonderful old man , who sat in wind and weather high on the heap of snow.
He was quite white , attired like a peasant in a coarse white coat of frieze ; he had long white hair , and was quite pale , with big blue eyes.
`` Who is that old man yonder ?"
asked the sparrows.
`` I know who he is ,"
quoth an old raven , who sat on the fence-rail , and was condescending enough to acknowledge that we are all like little birds in the sight of Heaven , and therefore was not above speaking to the sparrows , and giving them information.
`` I know who the old man is.
It is person_0 , the old man of last year.
He is not dead , as the calendar says , but is guardian to little Prince Spring , who is to come.
Yes , person_0 bears sway here.
Ugh ! the cold makes you shiver , does it not , you little ones ?"
`` Yes.
Did I not tell the truth ?"
said the smallest sparrow : `` the calendar is only an invention of man , and is not arranged according to nature ! They ought to leave these things to us , who are born cleverer than they"
And one week passed away , and two passed away.
The frozen lake lay hard and stiff , looking like a sheet of lead , and damp icy mists lay brooding over the land ; the great black crows flew about in long rows , but silently ; and it seemed as if nature slept.
Then a sunbeam glided along over the lake , and made it shine like burnished tin.
The snowy covering on the field and on the hill did not glitter as it had done ; but the white form , person_0 himself , still sat there , his gaze fixed unswervingly upon the south.
He did not notice that the snowy carpet seemed to sink as it were into the earth , and that here and there a little grass-green patch appeared , and that all these patches were crowded with sparrows.
`` Kee-wit ! kee-wit ! Is spring coming now ?"
`` Spring !"
The cry resounded over field and meadow , and through the black-brown woods , where the moss still glimmered in bright green upon the tree trunks ; and from the south the first two storks came flying through the air.
On the back of each sat a pretty little child -- one was a girl and the other a boy.
They greeted the earth with a kiss , and wherever they set their feet , white flowers grew up from beneath the snow.
Then they went hand in hand to the old ice man , person_0 , clung to his breast embracing him , and in a moment they , and he , and all the region around were hidden in a thick damp mist , dark and heavy , that closed over all like a veil.
Gradually the wind rose , and now it rushed roaring along , and drove away the mist with heavy blows , so that the sun shone warmly forth , and person_0 himself vanished , and the beautiful children of Spring sat on the throne of the year.
`` That 's what I call spring ,"
cried each of the sparrows.
`` Now we shall get our rights , and have amends for the stern winter"
Wherever the two children turned , green buds burst forth on bushes and trees , the grass shot upwards , and the corn-fields turned green and became more and more lovely.
And the little maiden strewed flowers all around.
Her apron , which she held up before her , was always full of them ; they seemed to spring up there , for her lap continued full , however zealously she strewed the blossoms around ; and in her eagerness she scattered a snow of blossoms over apple trees and peach trees , so that they stood in full beauty before their green leaves had fairly come forth.
And she clapped her hands , and the boy clapped his , and then flocks of birds came flying up , nobody knew whence , and they all twittered and sang , `` Spring has come"
That was beautiful to behold.
Many an old granny crept forth over the threshold into the sunshine , and tripped gleefully about , casting a glance at the yellow flowers which shone everywhere in the fields , just as they used to do when she was young.
The world grew young again to her , and she said , `` It is a blessed day out here to-day !"
The forest still wore its brown-green dress , made of buds ; but the thyme was already there , fresh and fragrant ; there were violets in plenty , anemones and primroses came forth , and there was sap and strength in every blade of grass.
That was certainly a beautiful carpet on which no one could resist sitting down , and there accordingly the young spring pair sat hand in hand , and sang and smiled , and grew on.
A mild rain fell down upon them from the sky , but they did not notice it , for the rain-drops were mingled with their own tears of joy.
They kissed each other , and were betrothed as people that should marry , and in the same moment the verdure of the woods was unfolded , and when the sun rose , the forest stood there arrayed in green.
And hand in hand the betrothed pair wandered under the fresh pendent ocean of leaves , where the rays of the sun gleamed through the interstices in lovely , changing hues.
What virgin purity , what refreshing balm in the delicate leaves ! The brooks and streams rippled clearly and merrily among the green velvety rushes and over the colored pebbles.
All nature seemed to say , `` There is plenty , and there shall be plenty always !"
And the cuckoo sang and the lark carolled : it was a charming spring ; but the willows had woolly gloves over their blossoms : they were desperately careful , and that is wearisome.
And days went by and weeks went by , and the heat came as it were whirling down.
Hot waves of air came through the corn , that became yellower and yellower.
The white water-lily of the north spread its great green leaves over the glassy mirror of the woodland lakes , and the fishes sought out the shady spots beneath ; and at the sheltered side of the wood , where the sun shone down upon the walls of the farmhouse , warming the blooming roses , and the cherry trees , which hung full of juicy black berries , almost hot with the fierce beams , there sat the lovely wife of Summer , the same being whom we have seen as a child and as a bride ; and her glance was fixed upon the black gathering clouds , which in wavy outlines -- blue-black and heavy -- were piling themselves up , like mountains , higher and higher.
They came from three sides , and growing like a petrified sea , they came swooping towards the forest , where every sound had been silenced as if by magic.
Every breath of air was hushed , every bird was mute.
There was a seriousness -- a suspense throughout all nature ; but in the highways and lanes , foot passengers , and riders , and men in carriages were hurrying on to get under shelter.
Then suddenly there was a flashing of light , as if the sun were burst forth -- flaming , burning , all-devouring ! And the darkness returned amid a rolling crash.
The rain poured down in streams , and there was alternate darkness and blinding light ; alternate silence and deafening clamor.
The young , brown , feathery reeds on the moor moved to and fro in long waves , the twigs of the woods were hidden in a mist of waters , and still came darkness and light , and still silence and roaring followed one another ; grass and corn lay beaten down and swamped , looking as though they could never raise themselves again.
But soon the rain fell only in gentle drops , the sun peered through the clouds , the water-drops glittered like pearls on the leaves , the birds sang , the fishes leaped up from the surface of the lake , the gnats danced in the sunshine , and yonder on the rock , in the salt , heaving sea water , sat Summer himself -- a strong man with sturdy limbs and long dripping hair -- there he sat , strengthened by the cool bath , in the warm sunshine.
All nature round about was renewed , everything stood luxuriant , strong and beautiful ; it was summer , warm , lovely summer.
And pleasant and sweet was the fragrance that streamed upwards from the rich clover-field , where the bees swarmed round the old ruined place of meeting : the bramble wound itself around the altar stone , which , washed by the rain , glittered in the sunshine ; and thither flew the queen-bee with her swarm , and prepared wax and honey.
Only Summer saw it , he and his strong wife ; for them the altar table stood covered with the offerings of nature.
And the evening sky shone like gold , shone as no church dome can shine ; and in the interval between the evening and the morning red , there was moonlight : it was summer.
And days went by , and weeks went by.
The bright scythes of the reapers gleamed in the corn-fields ; the branches of the apple trees bent down , heavy with red-and-yellow fruit.
The hops smelt sweetly , hanging in large clusters ; and under the hazel bushes where hung great bunches of nuts , rested a man and woman -- Summer and his quiet consort.
`` What wealth !"
exclaimed the woman : `` all around a blessing is diffused , everywhere the scene looks homelike and good ; and yet -- I know not why -- I long for peace and rest -- I know not how to express it.
Now they are already ploughing again in the field.
The people want to gain more and more.
See , the storks flock together , and follow at a little distance behind the plough -- the bird of Egypt that carried us through the air.
Do you remember how we came as children to this land of the North ? We brought with us flowers , and pleasant sunshine , and green to the woods ; the wind has treated them roughly , and they have become dark and brown like the trees of the South , but they do not , like them , bear fruit"
`` Do you wish to see the golden fruit ?"
said the man : `` then rejoice"
And he lifted his arm , and the leaves of the forest put on hues of red and gold , and beauteous tints spread over all the woodland.
The rose bush gleamed with scarlet hips ; the elder branches hung down with great heavy bunches of dark berries ; the wild chestnuts fell ripe from their dark husks ; and in the depths of the forests the violets bloomed for the second time.
But the Queen of the Year became more and more silent , and paler and paler.
`` It blows cold ,"
she said , `` and night brings damp mists.
I long for the land of my childhood"
And she saw the storks fly away , one and all ; and she stretched forth her hands towards them.
She looked up at the nests , which stood empty.
In one of them the long-stalked cornflower was growing ; in another , the yellow mustard-seed , as if the nest were only there for its protection and comfort ; and the sparrows were flying up into the storks ' nests.
`` Piep ! where has the master gone ? I suppose he ca n't bear it when the wind blows , and that therefore he has left the country.
I wish him a pleasant journey !"
The forest leaves became more and more yellow , leaf fell down upon leaf , and the stormy winds of autumn howled.
The year was far advanced , and the Queen of the Year reclined upon the fallen yellow leaves , and looked with mild eyes at the gleaming star , and her husband stood by her.
A gust swept through the leaves ; they fell again in a shower , and the Queen was gone , but a butterfly , the last of the season , flew through the cold air.
The wet fogs came , an icy wind blew , and the long dark nights drew on apace.
The Ruler of the Year stood there with locks white as snow , but he knew not it was his hair that gleamed so white -- he thought snow-flakes were falling from the clouds ; and soon a thin covering of snow was spread over the fields.
And then the church bells rang for the Christmas time.
`` The bells ring for the new-born ,"
said the Ruler of the Year.
`` Soon the new king and queen will be born ; and I shall go to rest , as my wife has done -- to rest in the gleaming star"
And in the fresh green fir wood , where the snow lay , stood the Angel of Christmas , and consecrated the young trees that were to adorn his feast.
`` May there be joy in the room , and under the green boughs ,"
said the Ruler of the Year.
In a few weeks he had become a very old man , white as snow.
`` My time for rest draws near , and the young pair of the year shall now receive my crown and sceptre"
`` But the might is still thine ,"
said the Angel of Christmas ; `` the might and not the rest.
Let the snow lie warmly upon the young seed.
Learn to bear it , that another receives homage while thou yet reignest.
Learn to bear being forgotten while thou art yet alive.
The hour of thy release will come when spring appears"
`` And when will spring come ?"
asked person_0.
`` It will come when the stork returns"
And with white locks and snowy beard , cold , bent , and hoary , but strong as the wintry storm , and firm as ice , old person_0 sat on the snowy drift on the hill , looking towards the south , where he had before sat and gazed.
The ice cracked , the snow creaked , the skaters skimmed to and fro on the smooth lakes , ravens and crows contrasted picturesquely with the white ground , and not a breath of wind stirred.
And in the quiet air old person_0 clenched his fists , and the ice was fathoms thick between land and land.
Then the sparrows came again out of the town , and asked , `` Who is that old man yonder ?"
And the raven sat there again , or a son of his , which comes to quite the same thing , and answered them and said , `` It is person_0 , the old man of last year.
He is not dead , as the almanack says , but he is the guardian of Spring , who is coming"
`` When will spring come ?"
asked the sparrows.
`` Then we shall have good times , and a better rule.
The old one was worth nothing"
And person_0 nodded in quiet thought at the leafless forest , where every tree showed the graceful form and bend of its twigs ; and during the winter sleep the icy mists of the clouds came down , and the ruler dreamed of his youthful days , and of the time of his manhood ; and towards the morning dawn the whole wood was clothed in glittering hoar frost.
That was the summer dream of winter , and the sun scattered the hoar frost from the boughs.
`` When will spring come ?"
asked the sparrows.
`` The spring !"
sounded like an echo from the hills on which the snow lay.
The sun shone warmer , the snow melted , and the birds twittered , `` Spring is coming !"
And aloft through the air came the first stork , and the second followed him.
A lovely child sat on the back of each , and they alighted on the field , kissed the earth , and kissed the old silent man , and he disappeared , shrouded in the cloudy mist.
And the story of the year was done.
`` That is all very well ,"
said the sparrows ; `` it is very beautiful too , but it is not according to the almanack , and therefore it is irregular"
A long time ago there were a person_0 and Queen who said every day , `` Ah , if only we had a child !"
but they never had one.
But it happened that once when the Queen was bathing , a frog crept out of the water on to the land , and said to her , `` Your wish shall be fulfilled ; before a year has gone by , you shall have a daughter"
What the frog had said came true , and the Queen had a little girl who was so pretty that the person_0 could not contain himself for joy , and ordered a great feast.
He invited not only his kindred , friends and acquaintance , but also the Wise Women , in order that they might be kind and well-disposed towards the child.
There were thirteen of them in his kingdom , but , as he had only twelve golden plates for them to eat out of , one of them had to be left at home.
The feast was held with all manner of splendor and when it came to an end the Wise Women bestowed their magic gifts upon the baby : one gave virtue , another beauty , a third riches , and so on with everything in the world that one can wish for.
When eleven of them had made their promises , suddenly the thirteenth came in.
She wished to avenge herself for not having been invited , and without greeting , or even looking at any one , she cried with a loud voice , `` The person_0 's daughter shall in her fifteenth year prick herself with a spindle , and fall down dead"
And , without saying a word more , she turned round and left the room.
They were all shocked ; but the twelfth , whose good wish still remained unspoken , came forward , and as she could not undo the evil sentence , but only soften it , she said , `` It shall not be death , but a deep sleep of a hundred years , into which the princess shall fall"
The person_0 , who would fain keep his dear child from the misfortune , gave orders that every spindle in the whole kingdom should be burnt.
Meanwhile the gifts of the Wise Women were plenteously fulfilled on the young girl , for she was so beautiful , modest , good-natured , and wise , that everyone who saw her was bound to love her.
It happened that on the very day when she was fifteen years old , the person_0 and Queen were not at home , and the maiden was left in the palace quite alone.
So she went round into all sorts of places , looked into rooms and bed-chambers just as she liked , and at last came to an old tower.
She climbed up the narrow winding-staircase , and reached a little door.
A rusty key was in the lock , and when she turned it the door sprang open , and there in a little room sat an old woman with a spindle , busily spinning her flax.
`` Good day , old dame ,"
said the person_0 's daughter ; `` what are you doing there ?"
`` I am spinning ,"
said the old woman , and nodded her head.
`` What sort of thing is that , that rattles round so merrily ?"
said the girl , and she took the spindle and wanted to spin too.
But scarcely had she touched the spindle when the magic decree was fulfilled , and she pricked her finger with it.
And , in the very moment when she felt the prick , she fell down upon the bed that stood there , and lay in a deep sleep.
And this sleep extended over the whole palace ; the person_0 and Queen who had just come home , and had entered the great hall , began to go to sleep , and the whole of the court with them.
The horses , too , went to sleep in the stable , the dogs in the yard , the pigeons upon the roof , the flies on the wall ; even the fire that was flaming on the hearth became quiet and slept , the roast meat left off frizzling , and the cook , who was just going to pull the hair of the scullery boy , because he had forgotten something , let him go , and went to sleep.
And the wind fell , and on the trees before the castle not a leaf moved again.
But round about the castle there began to grow a hedge of thorns , which every year became higher , and at last grew close up round the castle and all over it , so that there was nothing of it to be seen , not even the flag upon the roof.
But the story of the beautiful sleeping `` Briar-rose ,"
for so the princess was named , went about the country , so that from time to time kings ' sons came and tried to get through the thorny hedge into the castle.
But they found it impossible , for the thorns held fast together , as if they had hands , and the youths were caught in them , could not get loose again , and died a miserable death.
After long , long years a person_0 's son came again to that country , and heard an old man talking about the thorn-hedge , and that a castle was said to stand behind it in which a wonderfully beautiful princess , named Briar-rose , had been asleep for a hundred years ; and that the person_0 and Queen and the whole court were asleep likewise.
He had heard , too , from his grandfather , that many kings ' sons had already come , and had tried to get through the thorny hedge , but they had remained sticking fast in it , and had died a pitiful death.
Then the youth said , `` I am not afraid , I will go and see the beautiful Briar-rose"
The good old man might dissuade him as he would , he did not listen to his words.
But by this time the hundred years had just passed , and the day had come when Briar-rose was to awake again.
When the person_0 's son came near to the thorn-hedge , it was nothing but large and beautiful flowers , which parted from each other of their own accord , and let him pass unhurt , then they closed again behind him like a hedge.
In the castle-yard he saw the horses and the spotted hounds lying asleep ; on the roof sat the pigeons with their heads under their wings.
And when he entered the house , the flies were asleep upon the wall , the cook in the kitchen was still holding out his hand to seize the boy , and the maid was sitting by the black hen which she was going to pluck.
He went on farther , and in the great hall he saw the whole of the court lying asleep , and up by the throne lay the person_0 and Queen.
Then he went on still farther , and all was so quiet that a breath could be heard , and at last he came to the tower , and opened the door into the little room where Briar-rose was sleeping.
There she lay , so beautiful that he could not turn his eyes away ; and he stooped down and gave her a kiss.
But as soon as he kissed her , Briar-rose opened her eyes and awoke , and looked at him quite sweetly.
Then they went down together , and the person_0 awoke , and the Queen , and the whole court , and looked at each other in great astonishment.
And the horses in the court-yard stood up and shook themselves ; the hounds jumped up and wagged their tails ; the pigeons upon the roof pulled out their heads from under their wings , looked round , and flew into the open country ; the flies on the wall crept again ; the fire in the kitchen burned up and flickered and cooked the meat ; the joint began to turn and frizzle again , and the cook gave the boy such a box on the ear that he screamed , and the maid plucked the fowl ready for the spit.
And then the marriage of the person_0 's son with Briar-rose was celebrated with all splendor , and they lived contented to the end of their days"
There were once a man and a woman who had long in vain wished for a child.
At length the woman hoped that God was about to grant her desire.
These people had a little window at the back of their house from which a splendid garden could be seen , which was full of the most beautiful flowers and herbs.
It was , however , surrounded by a high wall , and no one dared to go into it because it belonged to an enchantress , who had great power and was dreaded by all the world.
One day the woman was standing by this window and looking down into the garden , when she saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion -LRB- rapunzel -RRB- , and it looked so fresh and green that she longed for it , and had the greatest desire to eat some.
This desire increased every day , and as she knew that she could not get any of it , she quite pined away , and looked pale and miserable.
Then her husband was alarmed , and asked , `` What aileth thee , dear wife ?"
`` Ah ,"
she replied , `` if I ca n't get some of the rampion , which is in the garden behind our house , to eat , I shall die"
The man , who loved her , thought , `` Sooner than let thy wife die , bring her some of the rampion thyself , let it cost thee what it will"
In the twilight of the evening , he clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress , hastily clutched a handful of rampion , and took it to his wife.
She at once made herself a salad of it , and ate it with much relish.
She , however , liked it so much -- so very much , that the next day she longed for it three times as much as before.
If he was to have any rest , her husband must once more descend into the garden.
In the gloom of evening , therefore , he let himself down again ; but when he had clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid , for he saw the enchantress standing before him.
`` How canst thou dare ,"
said she with angry look , `` to descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief ? Thou shalt suffer for it !"
`` Ah ,"
answered he , `` let mercy take the place of justice , I only made up my mind to do it out of necessity.
My wife saw your rampion from the window , and felt such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat"
Then the enchantress allowed her anger to be softened , and said to him , `` If the case be as thou sayest , I will allow thee to take away with thee as much rampion as thou wilt , only I make one condition , thou must give me the child which thy wife will bring into the world ; it shall be well treated , and I will care for it like a mother"
The man in his terror consented to everything , and when the woman was brought to bed , the enchantress appeared at once , gave the child the name of person_0 , and took it away with her.
person_0 grew into the most beautiful child beneath the sun.
When she was twelve years old , the enchantress shut her into a tower , which lay in a forest , and had neither stairs nor door , but quite at the top was a little window.
When the enchantress wanted to go in , she placed herself beneath it and cried , `` person_0 , person_0 , Let down thy hair to me"
person_0 had magnificent long hair , fine as spun gold , and when she heard the voice of the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses , wound them round one of the hooks of the window above , and then the hair fell twenty ells down , and the enchantress climbed up by it.
After a year or two , it came to pass that the King 's son rode through the forest and went by the tower.
Then he heard a song , which was so charming that he stood still and listened.
This was person_0 , who in her solitude passed her time in letting her sweet voice resound.
The King 's son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found.
He rode home , but the singing had so deeply touched his heart , that every day he went out into the forest and listened to it.
Once when he was thus standing behind a tree , he saw that an enchantress came there , and he heard how she cried , `` person_0 , person_0 , Let down thy hair"
Then person_0 let down the braids of her hair , and the enchantress climbed up to her.
`` If that is the ladder by which one mounts , I will for once try my fortune ,"
said he , and the next day when it began to grow dark , he went to the tower and cried , `` person_0 , person_0 , Let down thy hair"
Immediately the hair fell down and the King 's son climbed up.
At first person_0 was terribly frightened when a man such as her eyes had never yet beheld , came to her ; but the King 's son began to talk to her quite like a friend , and told her that his heart had been so stirred that it had let him have no rest , and he had been forced to see her.
Then person_0 lost her fear , and when he asked her if she would take him for her husband , and she saw that he was young and handsome , she thought , `` He will love me more than old Dame Gothel does ;"
and she said yes , and laid her hand in his.
She said , `` I will willingly go away with thee , but I do not know how to get down.
Bring with thee a skein of silk every time that thou comest , and I will weave a ladder with it , and when that is ready I will descend , and thou wilt take me on thy horse"
They agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening , for the old woman came by day.
The enchantress remarked nothing of this , until once person_0 said to her , `` Tell me , Dame Gothel , how it happens that you are so much heavier for me to draw up than the young King 's son -- he is with me in a moment"
`` Ah ! thou wicked child ,"
cried the enchantress `` What do I hear thee say ! I thought I had separated thee from all the world , and yet thou hast deceived me"
In her anger she clutched person_0 's beautiful tresses , wrapped them twice round her left hand , seized a pair of scissors with the right , and snip , snap , they were cut off , and the lovely braids lay on the ground.
And she was so pitiless that she took poor person_0 into a desert where she had to live in great grief and misery.
On the same day , however , that she cast out person_0 , the enchantress in the evening fastened the braids of hair which she had cut off , to the hook of the window , and when the King 's son came and cried , `` person_0 , person_0 , Let down thy hair ,"
she let the hair down.
The King 's son ascended , but he did not find his dearest person_0 above , but the enchantress , who gazed at him with wicked and venomous looks.
`` Aha !"
she cried mockingly , `` Thou wouldst fetch thy dearest , but the beautiful bird sits no longer singing in the nest ; the cat has got it , and will scratch out thy eyes as well.
person_0 is lost to thee ; thou wilt never see her more"
The King 's son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower.
He escaped with his life , but the thorns into which he fell , pierced his eyes.
Then he wandered quite blind about the forest , ate nothing but roots and berries , and did nothing but lament and weep over the loss of his dearest wife.
Thus he roamed about in misery for some years , and at length came to the desert where person_0 , with the twins to which she had given birth , a boy and a girl , lived in wretchedness.
He heard a voice , and it seemed so familiar to him that he went towards it , and when he approached , person_0 knew him and fell on his neck and wept.
Two of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again , and he could see with them as before.
He led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully received , and they lived for a long time afterwards , happy and contented"
In former days every sound still had its meaning and application.
When the smith 's hammer resounded , it cried , `` Strike away ! strike away"
When the carpenter 's plane grated , it said , `` Here goes ! here goes"
If the mill wheel began to clack , it said , `` Help , Lord God ! help , Lord God !"
And if the miller was a cheat and happened to leave the mill , it spoke high German , and first asked slowly , `` Who is there ? Who is there ?"
and then answered quickly , `` The miller ! the miller !"
and at last quite in a hurry , `` He steals bravely ! he steals bravely ! three pecks in a bushel"
At this time the birds also had their own language which every one understood ; now it only sounds like chirping , screeching , and whistling , and to some like music without words.
It came into the bird 's mind , however , that they would no longer be without a ruler , and would choose one of themselves to be their person_0.
One alone amongst them , the green plover , was opposed to this.
He had lived free , and would die free , and anxiously flying hither and thither , he cried , `` Where shall I go ? where shall I go ?"
He retired into a solitary and unfrequented marsh , and showed himself no more among his fellows.
The birds now wished to discuss the matter , and on a fine May morning they all gathered together from the woods and fields : eagles and chaffinches , owls and crows , larks and sparrows , how can I name them all ? Even the cuckoo came , and the hoopoe , his clerk , who is so called because he is always heard a few days before him , and a very small bird which as yet had no name , mingled with the band.
The hen , which by some accident had heard nothing of the whole matter , was astonished at the great assemblage.
`` What , what , what is going to be done ?"
she cackled ; but the cock calmed his beloved hen , and said , `` Only rich people ,"
and told her what they had on hand.
It was decided , however , that the one who could fly the highest should be person_0.
A tree-frog which was sitting among the bushes , when he heard that , cried a warning , `` No , no , no ! no !"
because he thought that many tears would be shed because of this ; but the crow said , `` Caw , caw ,"
and that all would pass off peaceably.
It was now determined that on this fine morning they should at once begin to ascend , so that hereafter no one should be able to say , `` I could easily have flown much higher , but the evening came on , and I could do no more"
On a given signal , therefore , the whole troop rose up in the air.
The dust ascended from the land , and there was tremendous fluttering and whirring and beating of wings , and it looked as if a black cloud was rising up.
The little birds were , however , soon left behind.
They could go no farther , and fell back to the ground.
The larger birds held out longer , but none could equal the eagle , who mounted so high that he could have picked the eyes out of the sun.
And when he saw that the others could not get up to him , he thought , `` Why shouldst thou fly still higher , thou art the person_0 ?"
and began to let himself down again.
The birds beneath him at once cried to him.
`` Thou must be our person_0 , no one has flown so high as thou"
`` Except me ,"
screamed the little fellow without a name , who had crept into the breast-feathers of the eagle.
And as he was not at all tired , he rose up and mounted so high that he reached heaven itself.
When , however , he had gone as far as this , he folded his wings together , and called down with clear and penetrating voice , `` I am person_0 ! I am person_0"
`` Thou , our person_0 ?"
cried the birds angrily.
`` Thou hast compassed it by trick and cunning !"
So they made another condition.
He should be person_0 who could go down lowest in the ground.
How the goose did flap about with its broad breast when it was once more on the land ! How quickly the cock scratched a hole ! The duck came off the worst of all , for she leapt into a ditch , but sprained her legs , and waddled away to a neighboring pond , crying , `` Cheating , cheating !"
The little bird without a name , however , sought out a mouse-hole , slipped down into it , and cried out of it with his small voice , `` I am person_0 ! I am person_0 !"
`` Thou our person_0 !"
cried the birds still more angrily.
`` Dost thou think thy cunning shall prevail ?"
They determined to keep him a prisoner in the hole and starve him out.
The owl was placed as sentinel in front of it , and was not to let the rascal out if she had any value for her life.
When evening was come all the birds were feeling very tired after exerting their wings so much , so they went to bed with their wives and children.
The owl alone remained standing by the mouse-hole , gazing steadfastly into it with her great eyes.
In the meantime she , too , had grown tired and thought to herself , `` You might certainly shut one eye , you will still watch with the other , and the little miscreant shall not come out of his hole"
So she shut one eye , and with the other looked straight at the mouse-hole.
The little fellow put his head out and peeped , and wanted to slip away , but the owl came forward immediately , and he drew his head back again.
Then the owl opened the one eye again , and shut the other , intending to shut them in turn all through the night.
But when she next shut the one eye , she forgot to open the other , and as soon as both her eyes were shut she fell asleep.
The little fellow soon observed that , and slipped away.
From that day forth , the owl has never dared to show herself by daylight , for if she does the other birds chase her and pluck her feathers out.
She only flies out by night , but hates and pursues mice because they make such ugly holes.
The little bird , too , is very unwilling to let himself be seen , because he is afraid it will cost him his life if he is caught.
He steals about in the hedges , and when he is quite safe , he sometimes cries , `` I am person_0 ,"
and for this reason , the other birds call him in mockery , ` person_0 of the hedges ' -LRB- Zaunk nig -RRB-.
No one , however , was so happy as the lark at not having to obey the little person_0.
As soon as the sun appears , she ascends high in the air and cries , `` Ah , how beautiful that is ! beautiful that is ! beautiful , beautiful ! ah , how beautiful that is !"
There was once a man whose wife died , and a woman whose husband died , and the man had a daughter , and the woman also had a daughter.
The girls were acquainted with each other , and went out walking together , and afterwards came to the woman in her house.
Then said she to the man 's daughter , `` Listen , tell thy father that I would like to marry him , and then thou shalt wash thyself in milk every morning , and drink wine , but my own daughter shall wash herself in water and drink water"
The girl went home , and told her father what the woman had said.
The man said , `` What shall I do ? Marriage is a joy and also a torment"
At length as he could come to no decision , he pulled off his boot , and said , `` Take this boot , it has a hole in the sole of it.
Go with it up to the loft , hang it on the big nail , and then pour water into it.
If it hold the water , then I will again take a wife , but if it run through , I will not"
The girl did as she was ordered , but the water drew the hole together , and the boot became full to the top.
She informed her father how it had turned out.
Then he himself went up , and when he saw that she was right , he went to the widow and wooed her , and the wedding was celebrated.
The next morning , when the two girls got up , there stood before the man 's daughter milk for her to wash in and wine for her to drink , but before the woman 's daughter stood water to wash herself with and water for drinking.
On the second morning , stood water for washing and water for drinking before the man 's daughter as well as before the woman 's daughter.
And on the third morning stood water for washing and water for drinking before the man 's daughter , and milk for washing and wine for drinking , before the woman 's daughter , and so it continued.
The woman became bitterly unkind to her step-daughter , and day by day did her best to treat her still worse.
She was also envious because her step-daughter was beautiful and lovable , and her own daughter ugly and repulsive.
Once , in winter , when everything was frozen as hard as a stone , and hill and vale lay covered with snow , the woman made a frock of paper , called her step-daughter , and said , `` Here , put on this dress and go out into the wood , and fetch me a little basketful of strawberries , -- I have a fancy for some"
`` Good heavens !"
said the girl , `` no strawberries grow in winter ! The ground is frozen , and besides the snow has covered everything.
And why am I to go in this paper frock ? It is so cold outside that one 's very breath freezes ! The wind will blow through the frock , and the thorns will tear it off my body"
`` Wilt thou contradict me again ?"
said the stepmother , `` See that thou goest , and do not show thy face again until thou hast the basketful of strawberries !"
Then she gave her a little piece of hard bread , and said , `` This will last thee the day ,"
and thought , `` Thou wilt die of cold and hunger outside , and wilt never be seen again by me"
Then the maiden was obedient , and put on the paper frock , and went out with the basket.
Far and wide there was nothing but snow , and not a green blade to be seen.
When she got into the wood she saw a small house out of which peeped three dwarfs.
She wished them good day , and knocked modestly at the door.
They cried , `` Come in ,"
and she entered the room and seated herself on the bench by the stove , where she began to warm herself and eat her breakfast.
The elves said , `` Give us , too , some of it"
`` Willingly ,"
she said , and divided her bit of bread in two and gave them the half.
They asked , `` What dost thou here in the forest in the winter time , in thy thin dress ?"
`` Ah ,"
she answered , `` I am to look for a basketful of strawberries , and am not to go home until I can take them with me"
When she had eaten her bread , they gave her a broom and said , `` Sweep away the snow at the back door with it"
But when she was outside , the three little men said to each other , `` What shall we give her as she is so good , and has shared her bread with us ?"
Then said the first , `` My gift is , that she shall every day grow more beautiful"
The second said , `` My gift is , that gold pieces shall fall out of her mouth every time she speaks"
The third said , `` My gift is , that a king shall come and take her to wife"
The girl , however , did as the little men had bidden her , swept away the snow behind the little house with the broom , and what did she find but real ripe strawberries , which came up quite dark-red out of the snow ! In her joy she hastily gathered her basket full , thanked the little men , shook hands with each of them , and ran home to take her step-mother what she had longed for so much.
When she went in and said good-evening , a piece of gold at once fell from her mouth.
Thereupon she related what had happened to her in the wood , but with every word she spoke , gold pieces fell from her mouth , until very soon the whole room was covered with them.
`` Now look at her arrogance ,"
cried the step-sister , `` to throw about gold in that way !"
but she was secretly envious of it , and wanted to go into the forest also to seek strawberries.
The mother said , `` No , my dear little daughter , it is too cold , thou mightest die of cold"
However , as her daughter let her have no peace , the mother at last yielded , made her a magnificent dress of fur , which she was obliged to put on , and gave her bread-and-butter and cake with her.
The girl went into the forest and straight up to the little house.
The three little elves peeped out again , but she did not greet them , and without looking round at them and without speaking to them , she went awkwardly into the room , seated herself by the stove , and began to eat her bread-and-butter and cake.
`` Give us some of it ,"
cried the little men ; but she replied , `` There is not enough for myself , so how can I give it away to other people ?"
When she had done eating , they said , `` There is a broom for thee , sweep all clean for us outside by the back-door"
`` Humph ! Sweep for yourselves ,"
she answered , `` I am not your servant"
When she saw that they were not going to give her anything , she went out by the door.
Then the little men said to each other , `` What shall we give her as she is so naughty , and has a wicked envious heart , that will never let her do a good turn to any one ?"
The first said , `` I grant that she may grow uglier every day"
The second said , `` I grant that at every word she says , a toad shall spring out of her mouth"
The third said , `` I grant that she may die a miserable death"
The maiden looked for strawberries outside , but as she found none , she went angrily home.
And when she opened her mouth , and was about to tell her mother what had happened to her in the wood , with every word she said , a toad sprang out of her mouth , so that every one was seized with horror of her.
Then the step-mother was still more enraged , and thought of nothing but how to do every possible injury to the man 's daughter , whose beauty , however , grew daily greater.
At length she took a cauldron , set it on the fire , and boiled yarn in it.
When it was boiled , she flung it on the poor girl 's shoulder , and gave her an axe in order that she might go on the frozen river , cut a hole in the ice , and rinse the yarn.
She was obedient , went thither and cut a hole in the ice ; and while she was in the midst of her cutting , a splendid carriage came driving up , in which sat the person_0.
The carriage stopped , and the person_0 asked , `` My child , who are thou , and what art thou doing here ?"
`` I am a poor girl , and I am rinsing yarn"
Then the person_0 felt compassion , and when he saw that she was so very beautiful , he said to her , `` Wilt thou go away with me ?"
`` Ah , yes , with all my heart ,"
she answered , for she was glad to get away from the mother and sister.
So she got into the carriage and drove away with the person_0 , and when they arrived at his palace , the wedding was celebrated with great pomp , as the little men had granted to the maiden.
When a year was over , the young Queen bore a son , and as the step-mother had heard of her great good-fortune , she came with her daughter to the palace and pretended that she wanted to pay her a visit.
Once , however , when the person_0 had gone out , and no one else was present , the wicked woman seized the Queen by the head , and her daughter seized her by the feet , and they lifted her out of the bed , and threw her out of the window into the stream which flowed by.
Then the ugly daughter laid herself in the bed , and the old woman covered her up over her head.
When the person_0 came home again and wanted to speak to his wife , the old woman cried , `` Hush , hush , that ca n't be now , she is lying in a violent perspiration ; you must let her rest to-day"
The person_0 suspected no evil , and did not come back again till next morning ; and as he talked with his wife and she answered him , with every word a toad leaped out , whereas formerly a piece of gold had fallen out.
Then he asked what that could be , but the old woman said that she had got that from the violent perspiration , and would soon lose it again.
During the night , however , the scullion saw a duck come swimming up the gutter , and it said , `` person_0 , what art thou doing now ? Sleepest thou , or wakest thou ?"
And as he returned no answer , it said , `` And my guests , What may they do ?"
The scullion said , `` They are sleeping soundly , too"
Then it asked again , `` What does little baby mine ?"
He answered , `` Sleepeth in her cradle fine"
Then she went upstairs in the form of the Queen , nursed the baby , shook up its little bed , covered it over , and then swam away again down the gutter in the shape of a duck.
She came thus for two nights ; on the third , she said to the scullion , `` Go and tell the person_0 to take his sword and swing it three times over me on the threshold"
Then the scullion ran and told this to the person_0 , who came with his sword and swung it thrice over the spirit , and at the third time , his wife stood before him strong , living , and healthy as she had been before.
Thereupon the person_0 was full of great joy , but he kept the Queen hidden in a chamber until the Sunday , when the baby was to be christened.
And when it was christened he said , `` What does a person deserve who drags another out of bed and throws him in the water ?"
`` The wretch deserves nothing better ,"
answered the old woman , `` than to be taken and put in a barrel stuck full of nails , and rolled down hill into the water"
`` Then ,"
said the person_0 , `` Thou hast pronounced thine own sentence ;"
and he ordered such a barrel to be brought , and the old woman to be put into it with her daughter , and then the top was hammered on , and the barrel rolled down hill until it went into the river"
EXAMPLE often proves of sov ` reign use ; At other times it cherishes abuse ; ` Tis not my purpose , howsoe'er , to tell Which of the two I fancy to excel.
Some will conceive the person_0 acted right , While others think her conduct very light Be that as ` twill , her actions right or wrong , I 'll freely give a license to my tongue , Or pen , at all events , and clearly show , By what some nuns were led to undergo , That flocks are equally of flesh and blood , And , if one passes , hundreds stem the flood , To follow up the course the first has run , And imitate what t ` other has begun.
When Agnes passed , another sister came , And ev ` ry nun desired to do the same ; At length the guardian of the flock appeared , And likewise passed , though much at first she feared.
The tale is this , we purpose to relate ; And full particulars we now will state.
AN person_0 once a certain illness had , Chlorosis named , which oft proves very bad , Destroys the rose that decorates the cheek , And renders females languid , pale , and weak.
Our lady 's face was like a saint 's in Lent : Quite wan , though otherwise it marked content.
The faculty , consulted on her case , And who the dire disorder 's source would trace , At length pronounced slow fever must succeed , And death inevitably be decreed , Unless ; -- but this unless is very strange Unless indeed she some way could arrange ; To gratify her wish , which seemed to vex , And converse be allowed with t ` other sex : Hippocrates , howe'er , more plainly speaks , No circumlocutory phrase he seeks.
O JESUS ! quite abashed the person_0 cried ; What is it ? -- fy ! -- a man would you provide ? Yes , they rejoined , ` tis clearly what you want , And you will die without a brisk gallant ; One truly able will alone suffice ; And , if not such , take two we would advise.
This still was worse , though , if we rightly guess , 'Twas by her wished , durst she the truth confess.
But how the sisterhood would see her take Such remedies and no objection make ? Shame often causes injury and pain ; And ills concealed bring others in their train.
SAID sister Agnes , Madam , take their word ; A remedy like this would be absurd , If , like old death , it had a haggard look , And you designed to get by hook or crook.
A hundred secrets you retain at ease ; Can one so greatly shock and you displease ? -- You talk at random , Agnes , she replied ; Now , would you for the remedy decide , Upon your word , if you were in my place ? -- Yes , madam , said the nun , and think it grace ; Still more I 'd do , if necessary thought ; Your health , by me , would ev ` ry way be sought , And , if required by you to suffer this , Not one around would less appear remiss ; Sincere affection for you I have shown , And my regard I 'll ever proudly own.
A THOUSAND thanks the person_0 gave her friend ; The doctors said : -- no use for them to send ; Throughout the convent sad distress appeared ; When Agnes , who to sage advice adhered , And was not thought the weakest head around , A kinder soul perhaps could not be found , Said to the sisterhood , -- What now retains Our worthy person_0 , and her will enchains , Is nothing but the shame of pow ` rs divine , Or else , to what 's prescribed she would resign.
Through charity will no one take the lead , And , by example , get her to proceed ? THE counsel was by ev ` ry one approved , And commendation through the circle moved.
IN this design not one , nor grave , nor old , Nor young , nor prioress , at all seemed cold ; Notes flew around , and friends of worth and taste , The black , the fair , the brown , appeared in haste ; The number was not small , our records say , Not -LRB- what might be -RRB- appearance of delay , But all most anxious seemed the road to show , And what the person_0 feared , at once to know ; None more sincerely ` mong the nuns desired , That shame should not prevent what was required.
Nor that the person_0 should , within her soul , Retain what might injuriously control.
NO sooner one among the flock had made The step , of which the person_0 was afraid , But other sisters followed in the train : -- Not one behind consented to remain ; Each forward pressed , in dread to be the last ; At length , from prejudice the person_0 passed ; To such examples she at last gave way , And , to a youth , no longer offered nay.
THE operation o ` er , her lily face Resumed the rose , and ev ` ry other grace.
O remedy divine , prescription blessed ! Thy friendly aid to numbers stands confessed ; The friends of thousands , friend of nature too ; The friend of all , except where honor 's due.
This point of honor is another ill , In which the faculty confess no skill.
WHAT ills in life ! what mis ` ries dire around , While remedies so easy may be found !"
A DEMON , blacker in his skin than heart , So great a charm was prompted to impart ; person_0 one in love , that he the lady gained , And full possession in the end obtained : The bargain was , the lover should enjoy The belle he wished , and who had proved so coy.
Said person_1 , soon I 'll make her lend an ear , In ev ` ry thing more complaisant appear ; But then , instead of what thou might ` st expect , person_0 be obedient and let me direct , The devil , having thus obliged a friend , He 'll thy commands obey , thou may ` st depend , The very moment ; and within the hour Thy humble servant , who has got such pow ` r , Will ask for others , which at once thou ` lt find ; Make no delay , for if thou art so blind , Thou comprehend ` st , thy body and thy soul The lovely fair no longer shall control , But person_1 then upon them both shall seize , And with them do-whatever he may please : ` Gainst this the spark had not a word to say ; 'Twas pleasing to command , though not obey.
HE sallied forth the beauteous belle to seek , And found her as he wished : -- complying-meek ; Indulged in blisses , and most happy proved , Save that the devil always round him moved.
Whatever rose within the whirl of thought He now commanded : -- quickly it was brought ; And when he ordered palaces to rise , Or raging tempests to pervade the skies , The devil instantly obeyed his will , And what he asked was done with wondrous skill.
LARGE sums his purse received ; -- the devil went just where commanded , and to Rome was sent , From whence his highness store of pardons got ; No journey long , though distant was the spot , But ev ` ry thing with magick ease arose , And all was soon accomplished that he chose.
So oft the spark was asked for orders new , Which he was bound to give the fiend at view , That soon his head most thoroughly was drained , And to the fair our lover much complained , Declared the truth , and ev ` ry thing detailed , How he was lost , if in commands he failed.
IS ` T this , said she , that makes thee so forlorn ? Mere nothing ! - quickly I 'll remove the thorn ; When person_1 comes , present his highness this , Which I have here , and say : -- You will not miss person_0 make it flat , and not its curl retain On which she gave him , what with little pain She drew from covert of the Cyprian grove , The fairy labyrinth where pleasures rove , Which formerly a duke so precious thought ; person_0 raise a knightly order thence he sought , Illustrious institution , noble plan , More filled with gods and demi-gods than man.
THE lover to the crafty devil said : -- ` Tis crooked this , you see , and I am led person_0 wish it otherwise ; go , make it straight ; A perfect line : no turn , nor twist , nor plait.
Away to work , be quick , fly , hasten , run ; The demon fancied it could soon be done ; No time he lost , but set it in the press , And tried to manage it with great success ; The massy hammer , kept beneath the deep , Made no impression : he as well might sleep ; Howe'er he beat : whatever charm he used : -- 'Twas still the same ; obedience it refused.
His time and labor constantly were lost ; Vain proved each effort : mystick skill was crossed ; The wind , or rain , or fog , or frost , or snow , Had no effect : still circular ` twould go.
The more he tried , the ringlet less inclined person_0 drop the curvature so closely twined.
How 's this ? said person_1 , never have I seen Such stubborn stuff wherever I have been ; The shades below no demon can produce , That could divine what here would prove of use : ` Twould puzzle hell to break the curling spring , And make a line direct of such a thing.
ONE morn the devil to the other went : Said he , to give thee up I 'll be content ; If solely thou wilt openly declare What ` tis I hold , for truly I despair ; I 'm victus I confess , and ca n't succeed : No doubt the thing 's impossible decreed.
FRIEND person_1 , said the lover , you are wrong ; Despondency should not to you belong , At least so soon : -- what you desire to know Is not the only one that 's found to grow ; Still many more companions it has got , And others could be taken from the spot"
One summer 's morning a little tailor was sitting on his table by the window ; he was in good spirits , and sewed with all his might.
Then came a peasant woman down the street crying , `` Good jams , cheap ! Good jams , cheap !"
This rang pleasantly in the tailor 's ears ; he stretched his delicate head out of the window , and called , `` Come up here , dear woman ; here you will get rid of your goods"
The woman came up the three steps to the tailor with her heavy basket , and he made her unpack the whole of the pots for him.
He inspected all of them , lifted them up , put his nose to them , and at length said , `` The jam seems to me to be good , so weigh me out four ounces , dear woman , and if it is a quarter of a pound that is of no consequence"
The woman who had hoped to find a good sale , gave him what he desired , but went away quite angry and grumbling.
`` Now , God bless the jam to my use ,"
cried the little tailor , `` and give me health and strength ;"
so he brought the bread out of the cupboard , cut himself a piece right across the loaf and spread the jam over it.
`` This wo n't taste bitter ,"
said he , `` but I will just finish the jacket before I take a bite"
He laid the bread near him , sewed on , and in his joy , made bigger and bigger stitches.
In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam ascended so to the wall , where the flies were sitting in great numbers , that they were attracted and descended on it in hosts.
`` Hola ! who invited you ?"
said the little tailor , and drove the unbidden guests away.
The flies , however , who understood no German , would not be turned away , but came back again in ever-increasing companies.
The little tailor at last lost all patience , and got a bit of cloth from the hole under his work-table , and saying , `` Wait , and I will give it to you ,"
struck it mercilessly on them.
When he drew it away and counted , there lay before him no fewer than seven , dead and with legs stretched out.
`` Art thou a fellow of that sort ?"
said he , and could not help admiring his own bravery.
`` The whole town shall know of this !"
And the little tailor hastened to cut himself a girdle , stitched it , and embroidered on it in large letters , `` Seven at one stroke !"
`` What , the town !"
he continued , `` The whole world shall hear of it !"
and his heart wagged with joy like a lamb 's tail.
The tailor put on the girdle , and resolved to go forth into the world , because he thought his workshop was too small for his valor.
Before he went away , he sought about in the house to see if there was anything which he could take with him ; however , he found nothing but an old cheese , and that he put in his pocket.
In front of the door he observed a bird which had caught itself in the thicket.
It had to go into his pocket with the cheese.
Now he took to the road boldly , and as he was light and nimble , he felt no fatigue.
The road led him up a mountain , and when he had reached the highest point of it , there sat a powerful giant looking about him quite comfortably.
The little tailor went bravely up , spoke to him , and said , `` Good day , comrade , so thou art sitting there overlooking the wide-spread world ! I am just on my way thither , and want to try my luck.
Hast thou any inclination to go with me ?"
The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor , and said , `` Thou ragamuffin ! Thou miserable creature !"
`` Oh , indeed ?"
answered the little tailor , and unbuttoned his coat , and showed the giant the girdle , `` There mayst thou read what kind of a man I am !"
The giant read , `` Seven at one stroke ,"
and thought that they had been men whom the tailor had killed , and began to feel a little respect for the tiny fellow.
Nevertheless , he wished to try him first , and took a stone in his hand and squeezed it together so that water dropped out of it.
`` Do that likewise ,"
said the giant , `` if thou hast strength ?"
`` Is that all ?"
said the tailor , `` that is child 's play with us !"
and put his hand into his pocket , brought out the soft cheese , and pressed it until the liquid ran out of it.
`` Faith ,"
said he , `` that was a little better , was n't it ?"
The giant did not know what to say , and could not believe it of the little man.
Then the giant picked up a stone and threw it so high"
There was once a girl whose father and mother died while she was still a little child.
All alone , in a small house at the end of the village , dwelt her godmother , who supported herself by spinning , weaving , and sewing.
The old woman took the forlorn child to live with her , kept her to her work , and educated her in all that is good.
When the girl was fifteen years old , the old woman became ill , called the child to her bedside , and said , `` Dear daughter , I feel my end drawing near.
I leave thee the little house , which will protect thee from wind and weather , and my spindle , shuttle , and needle , with which thou canst earn thy bread"
Then she laid her hands on the girl 's head , blessed her , and said , `` Only preserve the love of God in thy heart , and all will go well with thee"
Thereupon she closed her eyes , and when she was laid in the earth , the maiden followed the coffin , weeping bitterly , and paid her the last mark of respect.
And now the maiden lived quite alone in the little house , and was industrious , and span , wove , and sewed , and the blessing of the good old woman was on all that she did.
It seemed as if the flax in the room increased of its own accord , and whenever she wove a piece of cloth or carpet , or had made a shirt , she at once found a buyer who paid her amply for it , so that she was in want of nothing , and even had something to share with others.
About this time , the son of the King was traveling about the country looking for a bride.
He was not to choose a poor one , and did not want to have a rich one.
So he said , `` She shall be my wife who is the poorest , and at the same time the richest"
When he came to the village where the maiden dwelt , he inquired , as he did wherever he went , who was the richest and also the poorest girl in the place ? They first named the richest ; the poorest , they said , was the girl who lived in the small house quite at the end of the village.
The rich girl was sitting in all her splendor before the door of her house , and when the prince approached her , she got up , went to meet him , and made him a low curtsey.
He looked at her , said nothing , and rode on.
When he came to the house of the poor girl , she was not standing at the door , but sitting in her little room.
He stopped his horse , and saw through the window , on which the bright sun was shining , the girl sitting at her spinning-wheel , busily spinning.
She looked up , and when she saw that the prince was looking in , she blushed all over her face , let her eyes fall , and went on spinning.
I do not know whether , just at that moment , the thread was quite even ; but she went on spinning until the King 's son had ridden away again.
Then she went to the window , opened it , and said , `` It is so warm in this room !"
but she still looked after him as long as she could distinguish the white feathers in his hat.
Then she sat down to work again in her own room and went on with her spinning , and a saying which the old woman had often repeated when she was sitting at her work , came into her mind , and she sang these words to herself , -- `` Spindle , my spindle , haste , haste thee away , And here to my house bring the wooer , I pray"
And what do you think happened ? The spindle sprang out of her hand in an instant , and out of the door , and when , in her astonishment , she got up and looked after it , she saw that it was dancing out merrily into the open country , and drawing a shining golden thread after it.
Before long , it had entirely vanished from her sight.
As she had now no spindle , the girl took the weaver 's shuttle in her hand , sat down to her loom , and began to weave.
The spindle , however , danced continually onwards , and just as the thread came to an end , reached the prince.
`` What do I see ?"
he cried ; `` the spindle certainly wants to show me the way !"
turned his horse about , and rode back with the golden thread.
The girl was , however , sitting at her work singing , `` Shuttle , my shuttle , weave well this day , And guide the wooer to me , I pray"
Immediately the shuttle sprang out of her hand and out by the door.
Before the threshold , however , it began to weave a carpet which was more beautiful than the eyes of man had ever yet beheld.
Lilies and roses blossomed on both sides of it , and on a golden ground in the center green branches ascended , under which bounded hares and rabbits , stags and deer stretched their heads in between them , brightly-coloured birds were sitting in the branches above ; they lacked nothing but the gift of song.
The shuttle leapt hither and thither , and everything seemed to grow of its own accord.
As the shuttle had run away , the girl sat down to sew.
She held the needle in her hand and sang , `` Needle , my needle , sharp-pointed and fine , Prepare for a wooer this house of mine"
Then the needle leapt out of her fingers , and flew everywhere about the room as quick as lightning.
It was just as if invisible spirits were working ; they covered tables and benches with green cloth in an instant , and the chairs with velvet , and hung the windows with silken curtains.
Hardly had the needle put in the last stitch than the maiden saw through the window the white feathers of the prince , whom the spindle had brought thither by the golden thread.
He alighted , stepped over the carpet into the house , and when he entered the room , there stood the maiden in her poor garments , but she shone out from within them like a rose surrounded by leaves.
`` Thou art the poorest and also the richest ,"
said he to her.
`` Come with me , thou shalt be my bride"
She did not speak , but she gave him her hand.
Then he gave her a kiss , led her forth , lifted her on to his horse , and took her to the royal castle , where the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicings.
The spindle , shuttle , and needle were preserved in the treasure-chamber , and held in great honor"
A CERTAIN husband who , from jealous fear , With one eye slept while t ` other watched his dear , Deprived his wife of every social joy , -LRB- Friends oft the jealous character annoy , -RRB- person_0 made a fine collection in a book , Of tricks with which the sex their wishes hook.
Strange fool ! as if their wiles , to speak the truth , Were not a hydra , both in age and youth.
HIS wife howe'er engaged his constant cares ; He counted e ` en the number of her hairs ; person_0 kept a hag who followed every hour , Where'er she went , each motion to devour ; Duenna like , true semblance of a shade , That never quits , yet moves as if afraid.
THIS arch collection , like a prayer-book bound ; Was in the blockhead 's pocket always found , The form religious of the work , he thought , Would prove a charm ` gainst vice whenever sought ! ONE holy day , it happened that our dame , As from the neighb ` ring church she homeward came ; person_0 passed a house , some wight , concealed from view ; A basket full of filth upon her threw.
WITH anxious care apologies were made ; The lady , frightened by the frolick played , Quite unsuspicious to the mansion went ; Her aged friend for other clothes she sent , Who hurried home , and ent ` ring out of breath ; Informed old hunks -- what pained him more than death ZOUNDS ! cried the latter , vainly I may look To find a case like this within my book ; A dupe I 'm made , and nothing can be worse : -- Hell seize the work -- ` tis thoroughly a curse ! NOT wrong he proved , for , truly to confess ; This throwing dirt upon the lady 's dress Was done to get the hag , with Argus ' eyes Removed a certain distance from the prize.
The gay gallant , who watched the lucky hour , Felt doubly blessed to have her in his power.
HOW vain our schemes to guard the wily sex ! Oft plots we find , that ev ` ry sense perplex.
Go , jealous husbands , books of cases burn ; Caresses lavish , and you 'll find return"
After person_0 Coon played barber-shop with Jimmy Rabbit and his brother it was a long time before he met them again.
But one day person_0 was wandering through the woods when he caught sight of Jimmy.
Jimmy dodged behind a tree.
And person_0 saw Jimmy 's brother peep from behind another.
You see , his ears were so long that they stuck far beyond the tree , and person_0 could n't help seeing them.
`` Hello !"
person_0 called.
`` I 'm glad to see you"
And he told the truth , too.
He had been trying to find those two brothers for weeks , because he wanted to get even with them for cutting off his moustache.
Jimmy and his brother hopped out from behind their trees.
`` Hello !"
said Jimmy.
`` We were just looking for you"
Probably he meant to say , `` We were just looking AT you"
He was somewhat upset by meeting person_0 ; for he knew that person_0 was angry with him.
`` Oh , ho ! You were , were you ?"
person_0 answered.
He began to slide down the tree he had been climbing.
Jimmy Rabbit and his brother edged a little further away.
`` Better not come too near us !"
he said.
`` We 've both got the pink-eye , and you do n't want to catch it"
person_0 paused and looked at the brothers.
Sure enough ! their eyes were as pink as anything.
`` Does it hurt much ?"
person_0 asked.
`` Well -- it does and it does n't ,"
Jimmy replied.
`` I just stuck a brier into one of my eyes a few minutes ago and it hurt awful , then.
But you 'll be perfectly safe , so long as you do n't touch us"
`` How long does it last ?"
person_0 inquired.
`` Probably we 'll never get over it ,"
Jimmy Rabbit said cheerfully.
And his brother nodded his head , as much as to say , `` That 's so !"
person_0 Coon was just the least bit alarmed.
He really thought that there was something the matter with their eyes.
You see , though the Rabbit brothers ' eyes were always pink -LRB- for they were born that way -RRB- , he had never noticed it before.
So person_0 thought it would be safer not to go too near them.
`` Well , it 's too bad ,"
he told Jimmy.
`` I 'm sorry.
I wanted to play with you"
`` Oh , that 's all right !"
Jimmy said.
`` We can play , just the same.
I 'll tell you what we 'll play.
We 'll play --"
`` Not barber-shop !"
person_0 interrupted.
`` I wo n't play barber-shop , I never liked that game"
Jimmy Rabbit started to smile.
But he turned his smile into a sneeze.
And he said -- `` We 'll play robber.
You 'll like that , I know.
And you can be the robber.
You look like one , anyhow"
That remark made person_0 Coon angry.
And he wished that Jimmy had n't the pink-eye.
He would have liked to make an end of him right then and there.
`` What do you mean ?"
he shouted.
`` Robber nothing ! I 'm just as good as you are !"
`` Of course , of course !"
Jimmy said hastily.
`` It 's your face , you know , That black patch covers your eyes just like a robber 's mask.
That 's why we want you to be the robber"
person_0 had slipped down his tree to the ground ; and now he looked down into the creek.
It was just as Jimmy said.
person_0 had never thought of it before , but the black patch of short fur across the upper part of his face made him look exactly like a robber.
`` Come on !"
said Jimmy.
`` We ca n't play the game without you"
`` Well -- all right !"
said person_0.
He began to feel proud of his mask.
`` What shall I do ?"
`` You wait right here ,"
Jimmy ordered.
`` Hide behind that tree.
We 'll go into the woods.
And when we come back past this spot you jump out and say ` Hands up ! '.
You understand ?"
`` Of course !"
said person_0.
`` But hurry up ! Do n't be gone long"
`` Leave that to us ,"
said Jimmy Rabbit.
He winked at his brother ; and they started off together.
person_0 Coon did not see that wink.
If he had , he would n't have waited there all the afternoon for those Rabbit brothers to return.
They never came back at all.
And they told everybody about the trick they had played on person_0 Coon.
For a long time after that wherever person_0 went the forest-people called `` Robber !"
after him.
And Jasper Jay was the most annoying of all , because whenever he shouted `` Robber !"
he always laughed so loudly and so long.
His hoarse screech echoed through the woods.
And the worst of it was , everybody knew what he was laughing at"
Once upon a time there was a wee wee person_0 , who frolicked about on his little tottery legs , and enjoyed himself amazingly.
Now one day he set off to visit his person_1 , and was jumping with joy to think of all the good things he should get from her , when who should he meet but a Jackal , who looked at the tender young morsel and said : `` person_0 ! person_0 ! I 'll EAT YOU !"
But person_0 only gave a little frisk and said : `` To person_1 's house I go , Where I shall fatter grow , Then you can eat me so"
The Jackal thought this reasonable , and let person_0 pass.
By-and-by he met a Vulture , and the Vulture , looking hungrily at the tender morsel before him , said : `` person_0 ! person_0 ! I 'll EAT YOU !"
But person_0 only gave a little frisk , and said : `` To person_1 's house I go , Where I shall fatter grow , Then you can eat me so"
The Vulture thought this reasonable , and let person_0 pass.
And by-and-by he met a Tiger , and then a Wolf , and a Dog , and an Eagle , and all these , when they saw the tender little morsel , said : `` person_0 ! person_0 ! I 'll EAT YOU !"
But to all of them person_0 replied , with a little frisk : `` To person_1 's house I go , Where I shall fatter grow , Then you can eat me so"
At last he reached his person_1 's house , and said , all in a great hurry , `` person_1 , dear , I 've promised to get very fat ; so , as people ought to keep their promises , please put me into the corn-bin _ at once _"
So his person_1 said he was a good boy , and put him into the corn-bin , and there the greedy little person_0 stayed for seven days , and ate , and ate , and ate , until he could scarcely waddle , and his person_1 said he was fat enough for anything , and must go home.
But cunning little person_0 said that would never do , for some animal would be sure to eat him on the way back , he was so plump and tender.
`` I 'll tell you what you must do ,"
said Master person_0 , `` you must make a little drumikin out of the skin of my little brother who died , and then I can sit inside and trundle along nicely , for I 'm as tight as a drum myself"
So his person_1 made a nice little drumikin out of his brother 's skin , with the wool inside , and person_0 curled himself up snug and warm in the middle , and trundled away gaily.
Soon he met with the Eagle , who called out : `` Drumikin ! Drumikin ! Have you seen person_0 ?"
And Mr.
person_0 , curled up in his soft warm nest , replied : `` Fallen into the fire , and so will you On little Drumikin.
Tum-pa , tum-too !"
`` How very annoying !"
sighed the Eagle , thinking regretfully of the tender morsel he had let slip.
Meanwhile person_0 trundled along , laughing to himself , and singing : `` Tum-pa , tum-too ; Tum-pa , tum-too !"
Every animal and bird he met asked him the same question : `` Drumikin ! Drumikin ! Have you seen person_0 ?"
And to each of them the little slyboots replied : `` Fallen into the fire , and so will you On little Drumikin.
Tum-pa , tum too ; Tum-pa , tum-too ; Tum-pa , tum-too !"
Then they all sighed to think of the tender little morsel they had let slip.
At last the Jackal came limping along , for all his sorry looks as sharp as a needle , and he too called out -- `` Drumikin ! Drumikin ! Have you seen person_0 ?"
And person_0 , curled up in his snug little nest , replied gaily : `` Fallen into the fire , and so will you On little Drumikin ! Tum-pa --"
But he never got any further , for the Jackal recognized his voice at once , and cried : `` Hullo ! you 've turned yourself inside out , have you ? Just you come out of that !"
Whereupon he tore open Drumikin and gobbled up person_0"
Once upon a time in the middle of winter , when the flakes of snow were falling like feathers from the sky , a queen sat at a window sewing , and the frame of the window was made of black ebony.
And whilst she was sewing and looking out of the window at the snow , she pricked her finger with the needle , and three drops of blood fell upon the snow.
And the red looked pretty upon the white snow , and she thought to herself , `` Would that I had a child as white as snow , as red as blood , and as black as the wood of the window-frame"
Soon after that she had a little daughter , who was as white as snow , and as red as blood , and her hair was as black as ebony ; and she was therefore called Little person_0-white.
And when the child was born , the Queen died.
After a year had passed the King took to himself another wife.
She was a beautiful woman , but proud and haughty , and she could not bear that anyone else should surpass her in beauty.
She had a wonderful looking-glass , and when she stood in front of it and looked at herself in it , and said -- `` Looking-glass , Looking-glass , on the wall , Who in this land is the fairest of all ?"
the looking-glass answered -- `` Thou , O Queen , art the fairest of all !"
Then she was satisfied , for she knew that the looking-glass spoke the truth.
But person_0-white was growing up , and grew more and more beautiful ; and when she was seven years old she was as beautiful as the day , and more beautiful than the Queen herself.
And once when the Queen asked her looking-glass -- `` Looking-glass , Looking-glass , on the wall , Who in this land is the fairest of all ?"
it answered -- `` Thou art fairer than all who are here , Lady Queen"
But more beautiful still is person_0-white , as I ween"
Then the Queen was shocked , and turned yellow and green with envy.
From that hour , whenever she looked at person_0-white , her heart heaved in her breast , she hated the girl so much.
And envy and pride grew higher and higher in her heart like a weed , so that she had no peace day or night.
She called a huntsman , and said , `` Take the child away into the forest ; I will no longer have her in my sight.
Kill her , and bring me back her heart as a token"
The huntsman obeyed , and took her away ; but when he had drawn his knife , and was about to pierce person_0-white 's innocent heart , she began to weep , and said , `` Ah dear huntsman , leave me my life ! I will run away into the wild forest , and never come home again"
And as she was so beautiful the huntsman had pity on her and said , `` Run away , then , you poor child"
`` The wild beasts will soon have devoured you ,"
thought he , and yet it seemed as if a stone had been rolled from his heart since it was no longer needful for him to kill her.
And as a young boar just then came running by he stabbed it , and cut out its heart and took it to the Queen as proof that the child was dead.
The cook had to salt this , and the wicked Queen ate it , and thought she had eaten the heart of person_0-white.
But now the poor child was all alone in the great forest , and so terrified that she looked at every leaf of every tree , and did not know what to do.
Then she began to run , and ran over sharp stones and through thorns , and the wild beasts ran past her , but did her no harm.
She ran as long as her feet would go until it was almost evening ; then she saw a little cottage and went into it to rest herself.
Everything in the cottage was small , but neater and cleaner than can be told.
There was a table on which was a white cover , and seven little plates , and on each plate a little spoon ; moreover , there were seven little knives and forks , and seven little mugs.
Against the wall stood seven little beds side by side , and covered with snow-white counterpanes.
Little person_0-white was so hungry and thirsty that she ate some vegetables and bread from each plate and drank a drop of wine out of each mug , for she did not wish to take all from one only.
Then , as she was so tired , she laid herself down on one of the little beds , but none of them suited her ; one was too long , another too short , but at last she found that the seventh one was right , and so she remained in it , said a prayer and went to sleep.
When it was quite dark the owners of the cottage came back ; they were seven dwarfs who dug and delved in the mountains for ore.
.
They lit their seven candles , and as it was now light within the cottage they saw that someone had been there , for everything was not in the same order in which they had left it.
The first said , `` Who has been sitting on my chair ?"
The second , `` Who has been eating off my plate ?"
The third , `` Who has been taking some of my bread ?"
The fourth , `` Who has been eating my vegetables ?"
The fifth , `` Who has been using my fork ?"
The sixth , `` Who has been cutting with my knife ?"
The seventh , `` Who has been drinking out of my mug ?"
Then the first looked round and saw that there was a little hole on his bed , and he said , `` Who has been getting into my bed ?"
The others came up and each called out , `` Somebody has been lying in my bed too"
But the seventh when he looked at his bed saw little person_0-white , who was lying asleep therein.
And he called the others , who came running up , and they cried out with astonishment , and brought their seven little candles and let the light fall on little person_0-white.
`` Oh , heavens ! oh , heavens !"
cried they , `` what a lovely child !"
and they were so glad that they did not wake her up , but let her sleep on in the bed.
And the seventh dwarf slept with his companions , one hour with each , and so got through the night.
When it was morning little person_0-white awoke , and was frightened when she saw the seven dwarfs.
But they were friendly and asked her what her name was.
`` My name is person_0-white ,"
she answered.
`` How have you come to our house ?"
said the dwarfs.
Then she told them that her step-mother had wished to have her killed , but that the huntsman had spared her life , and that she had run for the whole day , until at last she had found their dwelling.
The dwarfs said , `` If you will take care of our house , cook , make the beds , wash , sew , and knit , and if you will keep everything neat and clean , you can stay with us and you shall want for nothing"
`` Yes ,"
said person_0-white , `` with all my heart ,"
and she stayed with them.
She kept the house in order for them ; in the mornings they went to the mountains and looked for copper and gold , in the evenings they came back , and then their supper had to be ready.
The girl was alone the whole day , so the good dwarfs warned her and said , `` Beware of your step-mother , she will soon know that you are here ; be sure to let no one come in"
But the Queen , believing that she had eaten person_0-white 's heart , could not but think that she was again the first and most beautiful of all ; and she went to her looking-glass and said -- `` Looking-glass , Looking-glass , on the wall , Who in this land is the fairest of all ?"
and the glass answered -- `` Oh , Queen , thou art fairest of all I see , But over the hills , where the seven dwarfs dwell , person_0-white is still alive and well , And none is so fair as she"
Then she was astounded , for she knew that the looking-glass never spoke falsely , and she knew that the huntsman had betrayed her , and that little person_0-white was still alive.
And so she thought and thought again how she might kill her , for so long as she was not the fairest in the whole land , envy let her have no rest.
And when she had at last thought of something to do , she painted her face , and dressed herself like an old pedler-woman , and no one could have known her.
In this disguise she went over the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs , and knocked at the door and cried , `` Pretty things to sell , very cheap , very cheap"
Little person_0-white looked out of the window and called out , `` Good-day my good woman , what have you to sell ?"
`` Good things , pretty things ,"
she answered ; `` stay-laces of all colors ,"
and she pulled out one which was woven of bright-coloured silk.
`` I may let the worthy old woman in ,"
thought person_0-white , and she unbolted the door and bought the pretty laces.
`` Child ,"
said the old woman , `` what a fright you look ; come , I will lace you properly for once"
person_0-white had no suspicion , but stood before her , and let herself be laced with the new laces.
But the old woman laced so quickly and so tightly that person_0-white lost her breath and fell down as if dead.
`` Now I am the most beautiful ,"
said the Queen to herself , and ran away.
Not long afterwards , in the evening , the seven dwarfs came home , but how shocked they were when they saw their dear little person_0-white lying on the ground , and that she neither stirred nor moved , and seemed to be dead.
They lifted her up , and , as they saw that she was laced too tightly , they cut the laces ; then she began to breathe a little , and after a while came to life again.
When the dwarfs heard what had happened they said , `` The old pedler-woman was no one else than the wicked Queen ; take care and let no one come in when we are not with you"
But the wicked woman when she had reached home went in front of the glass and asked -- `` Looking-glass , Looking-glass , on the wall , Who in this land is the fairest of all ?"
and it answered as before -- `` Oh , Queen , thou art fairest of all I see , But over the hills , where the seven dwarfs dwell , person_0-white is still alive and well , And none is so fair as she"
When she heard that , all her blood rushed to her heart with fear , for she saw plainly that little person_0-white was again alive.
`` But now ,"
she said , `` I will think of something that shall put an end to you ,"
and by the help of witchcraft , which she understood , she made a poisonous comb.
Then she disguised herself and took the shape of another old woman.
So she went over the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs , knocked at the door , and cried , `` Good things to sell , cheap , cheap !"
Little person_0-white looked out and said , `` Go away ; I can not let any one come in"
`` I suppose you can look ,"
said the old woman , and pulled the poisonous comb out and held it up.
It pleased the girl so well that she let herself be beguiled , and opened the door.
When they had made a bargain the old woman said , `` Now I will comb you properly for once"
Poor little person_0-white had no suspicion , and let the old woman do as she pleased , but hardly had she put the comb in her hair than the poison in it took effect , and the girl fell down senseless.
`` You paragon of beauty ,"
said the wicked woman , `` you are done for now ,"
and she went away.
But fortunately it was almost evening , when the seven dwarfs came home.
When they saw person_0-white lying as if dead upon the ground they at once suspected the step-mother , and they looked and found the poisoned comb.
Scarcely had they taken it out when person_0-white came to herself , and told them what had happened.
Then they warned her once more to be upon her guard and to open the door to no one.
The Queen , at home , went in front of the glass and said -- `` Looking-glass , Looking-glass , on the wall , Who in this land is the fairest of all ?"
then it answered as before -- `` Oh , Queen , thou art fairest of all I see , But over the hills , where the seven dwarfs dwell , person_0-white is still alive and well , And none is so fair as she"
When she heard the glass speak thus she trembled and shook with rage.
`` person_0-white shall die ,"
she cried , `` even if it costs me my life !"
Thereupon she went into a quite secret , lonely room , where no one ever came , and there she made a very poisonous apple.
Outside it looked pretty , white with a red cheek , so that everyone who saw it longed for it ; but whoever ate a piece of it must surely die.
When the apple was ready she painted her face , and dressed herself up as a country-woman , and so she went over the seven mountains to the seven dwarfs.
She knocked at the door.
person_0-white put her head out of the window and said , `` I can not let any one in ; the seven dwarfs have forbidden me"
`` It is all the same to me ,"
answered the woman , `` I shall soon get rid of my apples.
There , I will give you one"
`` No ,"
said person_0-white , `` I dare not take anything"
`` Are you afraid of poison ?"
said the old woman ; `` look , I will cut the apple in two pieces ; you eat the red cheek , and I will eat the white"
The apple was so cunningly made that only the red cheek was poisoned.
person_0-white longed for the fine apple , and when she saw that the woman ate part of it she could resist no longer , and stretched out her hand and took the poisonous half.
But hardly had she a bit of it in her mouth than she fell down dead.
Then the Queen looked at her with a dreadful look , and laughed aloud and said , `` White as snow , red as blood , black as ebony-wood ! this time the dwarfs can not wake you up again"
And when she asked of the Looking-glass at home -- `` Looking-glass , Looking-glass , on the wall , Who in this land is the fairest of all ?"
it answered at last -- `` Oh , Queen , in this land thou art fairest of all"
Then her envious heart had rest , so far as an envious heart can have rest.
The dwarfs , when they came home in the evening , found person_0-white lying upon the ground ; she breathed no longer and was dead.
They lifted her up , looked to see whether they could find anything poisonous , unlaced her , combed her hair , washed her with water and wine , but it was all of no use ; the poor child was dead , and remained dead.
They laid her upon a bier , and all seven of them sat round it and wept for her , and wept three days long.
Then they were going to bury her , but she still looked as if she were living , and still had her pretty red cheeks.
They said , `` We could not bury her in the dark ground ,"
and they had a transparent coffin of glass made , so that she could be seen from all sides , and they laid her in it , and wrote her name upon it in golden letters , and that she was a king 's daughter.
Then they put the coffin out upon the mountain , and one of them always stayed by it and watched it.
And birds came too , and wept for person_0-white ; first an owl , then a raven , and last a dove.
And now person_0-white lay a long , long time in the coffin , and she did not change , but looked as if she were asleep ; for she was as white as snow , as red as blood , and her hair was as black as ebony.
It happened , however , that a king 's son came into the forest , and went to the dwarfs ' house to spend the night.
He saw the coffin on the mountain , and the beautiful person_0-white within it , and read what was written upon it in golden letters.
Then he said to the dwarfs , `` Let me have the coffin , I will give you whatever you want for it"
But the dwarfs answered , `` We will not part with it for all the gold in the world"
Then he said , `` Let me have it as a gift , for I can not live without seeing person_0-white.
I will honor and prize her as my dearest possession"
As he spoke in this way the good dwarfs took pity upon him , and gave him the coffin.
And now the King 's son had it carried away by his servants on their shoulders.
And it happened that they stumbled over a tree-stump , and with the shock the poisonous piece of apple which person_0-white had bitten off came out of her throat.
And before long she opened her eyes , lifted up the lid of the coffin , sat up , and was once more alive.
`` Oh , heavens , where am I ?"
she cried.
The King 's son , full of joy , said , `` You are with me ,"
and told her what had happened , and said , `` I love you more than everything in the world ; come with me to my father 's palace , you shall be my wife"
And person_0-white was willing , and went with him , and their wedding was held with great show and splendor.
But person_0-white 's wicked step-mother was also bidden to the feast.
When she had arrayed herself in beautiful clothes she went before the Looking-glass , and said -- `` Looking-glass , Looking-glass , on the wall , Who in this land is the fairest of all ?"
the glass answered -- `` Oh , Queen , of all here the fairest art thou , But the young Queen is fairer by far as I trow"
Then the wicked woman uttered a curse , and was so wretched , so utterly wretched , that she knew not what to do.
At first she would not go to the wedding at all , but she had no peace , and must go to see the young Queen.
And when she went in she knew person_0-white ; and she stood still with rage and fear , and could not stir.
But iron slippers had already been put upon the fire , and they were brought in with tongs , and set before her.
Then she was forced to put on the red-hot shoes , and dance until she dropped down dead"
A King had a daughter who was beautiful beyond all measure , but so proud and haughty withal that no suitor was good enough for her.
She sent away one after the other , and ridiculed them as well.
Once the King made a great feast and invited thereto , from far and near , all the young men likely to marry.
They were all marshalled in a row according to their rank and standing ; first came the kings , then the grand-dukes , then the princes , the earls , the barons , and the gentry.
Then the King 's daughter was led through the ranks , but to every one she had some objection to make ; one was too fat , `` The wine-cask ,"
she said.
Another was too tall , `` Long and thin has little in"
The third was too short , `` Short and thick is never quick"
The fourth was too pale , `` As pale as death"
The fifth too red , `` A fighting-cock"
The sixth was not straight enough , `` A green log dried behind the stove"
So she had something to say against every one , but she made herself especially merry over a good king who stood quite high up in the row , and whose chin had grown a little crooked.
`` Well ,"
she cried and laughed , `` he has a chin like a thrush 's beak !"
and from that time he got the name of King Thrushbeard.
But the old King , when he saw that his daugher did nothing but mock the people , and despised all the suitors who were gathered there , was very angry , and swore that she should have for her husband the very first beggar that came to his doors.
A few days afterwards a fiddler came and sang beneath the windows , trying to earn a small alms.
When the King heard him he said , `` Let him come up"
So the fiddler came in , in his dirty , ragged clothes , and sang before the King and his daughter , and when he had ended he asked for a trifling gift.
The King said , `` Your song has pleased me so well that I will give you my daughter there , to wife"
The King 's daughter shuddered , but the King said , `` I have taken an oath to give you to the very first beggar-man , and I will keep it"
All she could say was in vain ; the priest was brought , and she had to let herself be wedded to the fiddler on the spot.
When that was done the King said , `` Now it is not proper for you , a beggar-woman , to stay any longer in my palace , you may just go away with your husband"
The beggar-man led her out by the hand , and she was obliged to walk away on foot with him.
When they came to a large forest she asked , `` To whom does that beautiful forest belong ?"
`` It belongs to King Thrushbeard ; if you had taken him , it would have been yours"
`` Ah , unhappy girl that I am , if I had but taken King Thrushbeard !"
Afterwards they came to a meadow , and she asked again , `` To whom does this beautiful green meadow belong ?"
`` It belongs to King Thrushbeard ; if you had taken him , it would have been yours"
`` Ah , unhappy girl that I am , if I had but taken King Thrushbeard !"
Then they came to a large town , and she asked again , `` To whom does this fine large town belong ?"
`` It belongs to King Thrushbeard ; if you had taken him , it would have been yours"
`` Ah , unhappy girl that I am , if I had but taken King Thrushbeard !"
`` It does not please me ,"
said the fiddler , `` to hear you always wishing for another husband ; am I not good enough for you ?"
At last they came to a very little hut , and she said , `` Oh goodness ! what a small house ; to whom does this miserable , mean hovel belong ?"
The fiddler answered , `` That is my house and yours , where we shall live together"
She had to stoop in order to go in at the low door.
`` Where are the servants ?"
said the King 's daughter.
`` What servants ?"
answered the beggar-man ; `` you must yourself do what you wish to have done.
Just make a fire at once , and set on water to cook my supper , I am quite tired"
But the King 's daughter knew nothing about lighting fires or cooking , and the beggar-man had to lend a hand himself to get anything fairly done.
When they had finished their scanty meal they went to bed ; but he forced her to get up quite early in the morning in order to look after the house.
For a few days they lived in this way as well as might be , and came to the end of all their provisions.
Then the man said , `` Wife , we can not go on any longer eating and drinking here and earning nothing.
You weave baskets"
He went out , cut some willows , and brought them home.
Then she began to weave , but the tough willows wounded her delicate hands.
`` I see that this will not do ,"
said the man ; `` you had better spin , perhaps you can do that better"
She sat down and tried to spin , but the hard thread soon cut her soft fingers so that the blood ran down.
`` See ,"
said the man , `` you are fit for no sort of work ; I have made a bad bargain with you.
Now I will try to make a business with pots and earthenware ; you must sit in the market-place and sell the ware"
`` Alas ,"
thought she , `` if any of the people from my father 's kingdom come to the market and see me sitting there , selling , how they will mock me ?"
But it was of no use , she had to yield unless she chose to die of hunger.
For the first time she succeeded well , for the people were glad to buy the woman 's wares because she was good-looking , and they paid her what she asked ; many even gave her the money and left the pots with her as well.
So they lived on what she had earned as long as it lasted , then the husband bought a lot of new crockery.
With this she sat down at the corner of the market-place , and set it out round about her ready for sale.
But suddenly there came a drunken hussar galloping along , and he rode right amongst the pots so that they were all broken into a thousand bits.
She began to weep , and did now know what to do for fear.
`` Alas ! what will happen to me ?"
cried she ; `` what will my husband say to this ?"
She ran home and told him of the misfortune.
`` Who would seat herself at a corner of the market-place with crockery ?"
said the man ; `` leave off crying , I see very well that you can not do any ordinary work , so I have been to our King 's palace and have asked whether they can not find a place for a kitchen-maid , and they have promised me to take you ; in that way you will get your food for nothing"
The King 's daughter was now a kitchen-maid , and had to be at the cook 's beck and call , and do the dirtiest work.
In both her pockets she fastened a little jar , in which she took home her share of the leavings , and upon this they lived.
It happened that the wedding of the King 's eldest son was to be celebrated , so the poor woman went up and placed herself by the door of the hall to look on.
When all the candles were lit , and people , each more beautiful than the other , entered , and all was full of pomp and splendor , she thought of her lot with a sad heart , and cursed the pride and haughtiness which had humbled her and brought her to so great poverty.
The smell of the delicious dishes which were being taken in and out reached her , and now and then the servants threw her a few morsels of them : these she put in her jars to take home.
All at once the King 's son entered , clothed in velvet and silk , with gold chains about his neck.
And when he saw the beautiful woman standing by the door he seized her by the hand , and would have danced with her ; but she refused and shrank with fear , for she saw that it was King Thrushbeard , her suitor whom she had driven away with scorn.
Her struggles were of no avail , he drew her into the hall ; but the string by which her pockets were hung broke , the pots fell down , the soup ran out , and the scraps were scattered all about.
And when the people saw it , there arose general laughter and derision , and she was so ashamed that she would rather have been a thousand fathoms below the ground.
She sprang to the door and would have run away , but on the stairs a man caught her and brought her back ; and when she looked at him it was King Thrushbeard again.
He said to her kindly , `` Do not be afraid , I and the fiddler who has been living with you in that wretched hovel are one.
For love of you I disguised myself so ; and I also was the hussar who rode through your crockery.
This was all done to humble your proud spirit , and to punish you for the insolence with which you mocked me"
Then she wept bitterly and said , `` I have done great wrong , and am not worthy to be your wife"
But he said , `` Be comforted , the evil days are past ; now we will celebrate our wedding"
Then the maids-in-waiting came and put on her the most splendid clothing , and her father and his whole court came and wished her happiness in her marriage with King Thrushbeard , and the joy now began in earnest.
I wish you and I had been there too"
ONCE upon a time there was a frog called person_0.
Jeremy person_1 ; he lived in a little damp house amongst the buttercups at the edge of a pond.
THE water was all slippy - sloppy in the larder and in the back passage.
But person_0.
Jeremy liked getting his feet wet ; nobody ever scolded him , and he never caught a cold ! HE was quite pleased when he looked out and saw large drops of rain , splashing in the pond -- `` I WILL get some worms and go fishing and catch a dish of minnows for my dinner ,"
said person_0.
Jeremy person_1.
`` If I catch more than five fish , I will invite my friends person_0.
Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise and Sir Isaac Newton.
The Alderman , however , eats salad"
MR.
JEREMY put on a macintosh , and a pair of shiny goloshes ; he took his rod and basket , and set off with enormous hops to the place where he kept his boat.
THE boat was round and green , and very like the other lily-leaves.
It was tied to a water-plant in the middle of the pond.
MR.
JEREMY took a reed pole , and pushed the boat out into open water.
`` I know a good place for minnows ,"
said person_0.
Jeremy person_1.
MR.
JEREMY stuck his pole into the mud and fastened his boat to it.
Then he settled himself cross-legged and arranged his fishing tackle.
He had the dearest little red float.
His rod was a tough stalk of grass , his line was a fine long white horse-hair , and he tied a little wriggling worm at the end.
THE rain trickled down his back , and for nearly an hour he stared at the float.
`` This is getting tiresome , I think I should like some lunch ,"
said person_0.
Jeremy person_1.
HE punted back again amongst the water - plants , and took some lunch out of his basket.
`` I will eat a butterfly sandwich , and wait till the shower is over ,"
said person_0.
Jeremy person_1.
A GREAT big water-beetle came up underneath the lily leaf and tweaked the toe of one of his goloshes.
person_0.
Jeremy crossed his legs up shorter , out of reach , and went on eating his sandwich.
ONCE or twice something moved about with a rustle and a splash amongst the rushes at the side of the pond.
`` I trust that is not a rat ,"
said person_0.
Jeremy person_1 ; `` I think I had better get away from here"
MR.
JEREMY shoved the boat out again a little way , and dropped in the bait.
There was a bite almost directly ; the float gave a tremendous bobbit ! `` A minnow ! a minnow ! I have him by the nose !"
cried person_0.
Jeremy person_1 , jerking up his rod.
BUT what a horrible surprise ! Instead of a smooth fat minnow , person_0.
Jeremy landed little Jack Sharp the stickleback , covered with spines ! THE stickleback floundered about the boat , pricking and snapping until he was quite out of breath.
Then he jumped back into the water.
AND a shoal of other little fishes put their heads out , and laughed at person_0.
Jeremy person_1.
AND while person_0.
Jeremy sat disconsolately on the edge of his boat -- sucking his sore fingers and peering down into the water -- a MUCH worse thing happened ; a really FRIGHTFUL thing it would have been , if person_0.
Jeremy had not been wearing a macintosh ! A GREAT big enormous trout came up -- ker - pflop-p-p-p ! with a splash -- and it seized person_0.
Jeremy with a snap , `` Ow ! Ow ! Ow !"
-- and then it turned and dived down to the bottom of the pond ! BUT the trout was so displeased with the taste of the macintosh , that in less than half a minute it spat him out again ; and the only thing it swallowed was person_0.
Jeremy 's goloshes.
MR.
JEREMY bounced up to the surface of the water , like a cork and the bubbles out of a soda water bottle ; and he swam with all his might to the edge of the pond.
HE scrambled out on the first bank he came to , and he hopped home across the meadow with his macintosh all in tatters.
`` WHAT a mercy that was not a pike !"
said person_0.
Jeremy person_1.
`` I have lost my rod and basket ; but it does not much matter , for I am sure I should never have dared to go fishing again !"
HE put some sticking plaster on his fingers , and his friends both came to dinner.
He could not offer them fish , but he had something else in his larder.
SIR ISAAC NEWTON wore his black and gold waistcoat , AND person_0.
Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise brought a salad with him in a string bag.
AND instead of a nice dish of minnows -- they had a roasted grasshopper with lady-bird sauce ; which frogs consider a beautiful treat ; but _ I _ think it must have been nasty ! The End"
Once upon a time , a tiger was caught in a trap.
He tried in vain to get out through the bars , and rolled and bit with rage and grief when he failed.
By chance a poor person_0 came by.
`` Let me out of this cage , oh pious one !"
cried the tiger.
`` Nay , my friend ,"
replied the person_0 mildly , `` you would probably eat me if I did"
`` Not at all !"
swore the tiger with many oaths ; `` on the contrary , I should be for ever grateful , and serve you as a slave !"
Now when the tiger sobbed and sighed and wept and swore , the pious person_0 's heart softened , and at last he consented to open the door of the cage.
Out popped the tiger , and , seizing the poor man , cried , `` What a fool you are ! What is to prevent my eating you now , for after being cooped up so long I am just terribly hungry !"
In vain the person_0 pleaded for his life ; the most he could gain was a promise to abide by the decision of the first three things he chose to question as to the justice of the tiger 's action.
So the person_0 first asked a _ pipal _ tree what it thought of the matter , but the _ pipal _ tree replied coldly , `` What have you to complain about ? Do n't I give shade and shelter to every one who passes by , and do n't they in return tear down my branches to feed their cattle ? Do n't whimper -- be a man !"
Then the person_0 , sad at heart , went further afield till he saw a buffalo turning a well-wheel ; but he fared no better from it , for it answered , `` You are a fool to expect gratitude ! Look at me ! Whilst I gave milk they fed me on cotton-seed and oil-cake , but now I am dry they yoke me here , and give me refuse as fodder !"
The person_0 , still more sad , asked the road to give him its opinion.
`` My dear sir ,"
said the road , `` how foolish you are to expect anything else ! Here am I , useful to everybody , yet all , rich and poor , great and small , trample on me as they go past , giving me nothing but the ashes of their pipes and the husks of their grain !"
On this the person_0 turned back sorrowfully , and on the way he met a jackal , who called out , `` Why , what 's the matter , Mr.
person_0 ? You look as miserable as a fish out of water !"
The person_0 told him all that had occurred.
`` How very confusing !"
said the jackal , when the recital was ended ; `` would you mind telling me over again , for everything has got so mixed up ?"
The person_0 told it all over again , but the jackal shook his head in a distracted sort of way , and still could not understand.
`` It 's very odd ,"
said he , sadly , `` but it all seems to go in at one ear and out at the other ! I will go to the place where it all happened , and then perhaps I shall be able to give a judgment"
So they returned to the cage , by which the tiger was waiting for the person_0 , and sharpening his teeth and claws.
`` You 've been away a long time !"
growled the savage beast , `` but now let us begin our dinner"
_ Our _ dinner !"
thought the wretched person_0 , as his knees knocked together with fright ; `` what a remarkably delicate way of putting it !"
`` Give me five minutes , my lord !"
he pleaded , `` in order that I may explain matters to the jackal here , who is somewhat slow in his wits"
The tiger consented , and the person_0 began the whole story over again , not missing a single detail , and spinning as long a yarn as possible.
`` Oh , my poor brain ! oh , my poor brain !"
cried the jackal , wringing its paws.
`` Let me see ! how did it all begin ? You were in the cage , and the tiger came walking by --"
`` Pooh !"
interrupted the tiger , `` what a fool you are ! _ I _ was in the cage"
`` Of course !"
cried the jackal , pretending to tremble with fright ; `` yes ! I was in the cage -- no I was n't -- dear ! dear ! where are my wits ? Let me see -- the tiger was in the person_0 , and the cage came walking by -- no , that 's not it , either ! Well , do n't mind me , but begin your dinner , for I shall never understand !"
`` Yes , you shall !"
returned the tiger , in a rage at the jackal 's stupidity ; `` I 'll _ make _ you understand ! Look here -- I am the tiger --"
`` Yes , my lord !"
`` And that is the person_0 --"
`` Yes , my lord !"
`` And that is the cage --"
`` Yes , my lord !"
`` And I was in the cage -- do you understand ?"
`` Yes -- no -- Please , my lord --"
`` Well ?"
cried the tiger impatiently.
`` Please , my lord ! -- how did you get in ?"
`` How ! -- why in the usual way , of course !"
`` Oh , dear me ! -- my head is beginning to whirl again ! Please do n't be angry , my lord , but what is the usual way ?"
At this the tiger lost patience , and , jumping into the cage , cried , `` This way ! Now do you understand how it was ?"
`` Perfectly !"
grinned the jackal , as he dexterously shut the door , `` and if you will permit me to say so , I think matters will remain as they were !"
There were two Cocks -- one on the dunghill , the other on the roof.
Both were conceited ; but which of the two effected most ? Tell us your opinion ; but we shall keep our own nevertheless.
The poultry-yard was divided by a partition of boards from another yard , in which lay a manure-heap , whereon lay and grew a great Cucumber , which was fully conscious of being a forcing-bed plant.
`` That 's a privilege of birth ,"
the Cucumber said to herself.
`` Not all can be born cucumbers ; there must be other kinds too.
The fowls , the ducks , and all the cattle in the neighbouring yard are creatures too.
I now look up to the Yard Cock on the partition.
He certainly is of much greater consequence than the Weathercock , who is so highly placed , and who ca n't even creak , much less crow ; and he has neither hens nor chickens , and thinks only of himself , and perspires verdigris.
But the Yard Cock -- he 's something like a cock ! His gait is like a dance , his crowing is music ; and wherever he comes , it is known directly.
What a trumpeter he is ! If he would only come in here ! Even if he were to eat me up , stalk and all , it would be a blissful death ,"
said the Cucumber.
In the night the weather became very bad.
Hens , chickens , and even the Cock himself sought shelter.
The wind blew down the partition between the two yards with a crash ; the tiles came tumbling down , but the Weathercock sat firm.
He did not even turn round ; he could not turn round , and yet he was young and newly cast , but steady and sedate.
He had been `` born old ,"
and did not at all resemble the birds that fly beneath the vault of heaven , such as the sparrows and the swallows.
He despised those , considering them piping birds of trifling stature -- ordinary song birds.
The pigeons , he allowed , were big and shining , and gleamed like mother-o ' - pearl , and looked like a kind of weathercocks ; but then they were fat and stupid , and their whole endeavor was to fill themselves with food.
`` Moreover , they are tedious things to converse with ,"
said the Weathercock.
The birds of passage had also paid a visit to the Weathercock , and told him tales of foreign lands , of airy caravans , and exciting robber stories ; of encounters with birds of prey ; and that was interesting for the first time , but the Weathercock knew that afterwards they always repeated themselves , and that was tedious.
`` They are tedious , and all is tedious ,"
he said.
`` No one is fit to associate with , and one and all of them are wearisome and stupid"
`` The world is worth nothing ,"
he cried.
`` The whole thing is a stupidity"
The Weathercock was what is called `` used up ;"
and that quality would certainly have made him interesting in the eyes of the Cucumber if she had known it ; but she had only eyes for the Yard Cock , who had now actually come into her own yard.
The wind had blown down the plank , but the storm had passed over.
-LRB- Illustration : THE WEATHERCOCK.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` What do you think of _ that _ crowing ?"
the Yard Cock inquired of his hens and chickens.
`` It was a little rough -- the elegance was wanting"
And hens and chickens stepped upon the muck-heap , and the Cock strutted to and fro on it like a knight.
`` Garden plant !"
he cried out to the Cucumber ; and in this one word she understood his deep feeling , and forgot that he was pecking at her and eating her up -- a happy death ! And the hens came , and the chickens came , and when one of them runs the rest run also ; and they clucked and chirped , and looked at the Cock , and were proud that he was of their kind.
`` Cock-a-doodle-doo !"
he crowed.
`` The chickens will grow up large fowls if I make a noise in the poultry-yard of the world"
And hens and chickens clucked and chirped , and the Cock told them a great piece of news : `` A cock can lay an egg ; and do you know what there is in that egg ? In that egg lies a basilisk.
No one can stand the sight of a basilisk.
Men know that , and now you know it too -- you know what is in me , and what a cock of the world I am"
And with this the Yard Cock flapped his wings , and made his comb swell up , and crowed again ; and all of them shuddered -- all the hens and the chickens ; but they were proud that one of their people should be such a cock of the world.
They clucked and chirped , so that the Weathercock heard it ; and he heard it , but he never stirred.
`` It 's all stupid stuff !"
said a voice within the Weathercock.
`` The Yard Cock does not lay eggs , and I am too lazy to lay any.
If I liked , I could lay a wind-egg ; but the world is not worth a wind-egg.
And now I do n't like even to sit here any longer"
And with this the Weathercock broke off ; but he did not kill the Yard Cock , though he intended to do so , as the hens declared.
And what does the moral say ? -- `` Better to crow than to be ` used up ' and break off"
The person_0 wished for a bride ; and , as may be imagined , he wanted to select a very pretty one from among the flowers ; therefore he threw a critical glance at all the flower-beds , and found that every flower sat quietly and demurely on her stalk , just as a maiden ought to sit , before she is engaged ; but there were a great many of them , and the choice threatened to become wearisome.
The person_0 did not care to take much trouble , and consequently he flew off on a visit to the daisies.
The French call this floweret `` Marguerite ,"
and they know that Marguerite can prophecy , when lovers pluck off its leaves , and ask of every leaf they pluck some question concerning their lovers.
`` Heartily ? Painfully ? Loves me much ? A little ? Not at all ?"
and so on.
Every one asks in his own language.
The person_0 came to Marguerite too , to inquire ; but he did not pluck off her leaves : he kissed each of them , for he considered that most is to be done with kindness.
`` Darling Marguerite daisy !"
he said to her , `` you are the wisest woman among the flowers.
Pray , pray tell me , shall I get this one or that ? Which will be my bride ? When I know that , I will directly fly to her , and propose for her"
But Marguerite did not answer him.
She was angry that he had called her a `` woman ,"
when she was yet a girl ; and there is a great difference.
He asked for the second and for the third time , and when she remained dumb , and answered him not a word , he would wait no longer , but flew away to begin his wooing at once.
It was in the beginning of spring ; the crocus and the snowdrop were blooming around.
`` They are very pretty ,"
thought the person_0.
`` Charming little lasses , but a little too much of the schoolgirl about them"
Like all young lads , he looked out for the elder girls.
Then he flew of to the anemones.
These were a little too bitter for his taste ; the violet somewhat too sentimental ; the lime blossoms were too small , and , moreover , they had too many relations ; the apple blossoms -- they looked like roses , but they bloomed to-day , to fall off to-morrow , to fall beneath the first wind that blew ; and he thought that a marriage with them would last too short a time.
The pease blossom pleased him best of all : she was white and red , and graceful and delicate , and belonged to the domestic maidens who look well , and at the same time are useful in the kitchen.
He was just about to make his offer , when close by the maiden he saw a pod at whose end hung a withered flower.
`` Who is that ?"
he asked.
`` That is my sister ,"
replied the Pease Blossom.
`` Oh , indeed ; and you will get to look like her !"
he said.
And away he flew , for he felt quite shocked.
The honeysuckle hung forth blooming from the hedge , but there was a number of girls like that , with long faces and sallow complexions.
No , he did not like her.
But which one did he like ? The spring went by , and the summer drew towards its close ; it was autumn , but he was still undecided.
And now the flowers appeared in their most gorgeous robes , but in vain ; they had not the fresh fragrant air of youth.
But the heart demands fragrance , even when it is no longer young , and there is very little of that to be found among the dahlias and dry chrysanthemums , therefore the person_0 turned to the mint on the ground.
You see this plant has no blossom ; but indeed it is blossom all over , full of fragrance from head to foot , with flower scent in every leaf.
`` I shall take her ,"
said the person_0.
And he made an offer for her.
But the mint stood silent and stiff , listening to him.
At last she said , `` Friendship , if you please ; but nothing more.
I am old , and you are old , but we may very well live for one another ; but as to marrying -- no -- do n't let us appear ridiculous at our age"
And thus it happened that the person_0 had no wife at all.
He had been too long choosing , and that is a bad plan.
So the person_0 became what we call an old bachelor.
It was late in autumn , with rain and cloudy weather.
The wind blew cold over the backs of the old willow trees , so that they creaked again.
It was no weather to be flying about in summer clothes , nor , indeed , was the person_0 in the open air.
He had got under shelter by chance , where there was fire in the stove and the heat of summer.
He could live well enough , but he said , `` It 's not enough merely to live.
One must have freedom , sunshine , and a little flower"
And he flew against the window-frame , and was seen and admired , and then stuck upon a pin and placed in the box of curiosities ; they could not do more for him.
`` Now I am perched on a stalk , like the flowers ,"
said the person_0.
`` It certainly is not very pleasant.
It must be something like being married , for one is stuck fast"
And he consoled himself in some measure with the thought.
`` That 's very poor comfort ,"
said the potted Plants in the room.
`` But ,"
thought the person_0 , `` one can not well trust these potted Plants.
They 've had too much to do with mankind"
HOWEVER exquisite we BEAUTY find , It satiates sense , and palls upon the mind : Brown bread as well as white must be for me ; person_1 motto ever is -- VARIETY.
THAT brisk brunette , with languid , sleepy eye , Delights my fancy ; Can you tell me why ? The reason 's plain enough : -- she 's something new.
The other mistress , long within my view , Though lily fair , with seraph features blessed , No more emotion raises in my breast ; Her heart assents , while mine reluctant proves ; Whence this diversity that in us moves ? From hence it rises , to be plain and free , person_1 motto ever is -- VARIETY.
THE same in other words , I 've often said ; ` Tis right , at times , disguise with care to spread.
The maxim 's good , and with it I agree : person_1 motto ever is -- VARIETY.
A CERTAIN spouse the same devise had got , Whose wife by all was thought a handsome lot.
His love , howe'er , was over very soon ; It lasted only through the honeymoon ; Possession had his passion quite destroyed ; In Hymen 's bands too oft the lover 's cloyed.
ONE , ` mong his valets , had a pretty wife ; The master was himself quite full of life , person_2 soon the charmer to his wishes drew , With which the husband discontented grew , person_2 having caught them in the very fact , He rang his mate the changes for the act ; Sad names he called her , howsoever just , A silly blockhead ! thus to raise a dust , For what , in ev ` ry town 's so common found ; May we worse fortune never meet around ! HE made the paramor a grave harangue Do n't others give , said he , the poignant pang ; But ev ` ry one allow to keep his own , As God and reason oft to man have shown , person_2 recommended fully to observe ; person_0 from it surely have not cause to swerve ; person_0 can not plead that you for beauty pine person_0 've one at home who far surpasses mine ; No longer give yourself such trouble , pray : person_0 , to my help-mate , too much honor pay ; Such marked attentions she can ne'er require Let each of us , alone his own admire.
To others ' WELLs you never ought to go , While your 's with sweets is found to overflow ; I willingly appeal to connoisseurs ; If heav ` n had blessed me with such bliss as your 's , That when I please , your lady I could take , I would not for a queen such charms forsake.
But since we ca n't prevent what now is known , I wish , good sir , contented with your own , -LRB- person_2 ` tis , I hope , without offence I speak , -RRB- person_0 'll favors from my wife no longer seek.
THE master , neither no nor yes replied , But orders gave , his man they should provide ; For dinner ev ` ry day , what pleased his taste , A pie of eels , which near him should be placed.
HIS appetite at first was wond ` rous great ; Again , the second time , as much he ate ; But when the third appeared , he felt disgust , person_2 not another morsel down could thrust.
The valet fain would try a diff ` rent dish ; 'Twas not allowed ; -- you 've got , said they , your wish ; ` Tis pie alone ; you like it best you know , person_2 no objection you must dare to show.
I 'M surfeited , cried he , ` tis far too much : Pie ev ` ry day ! and nothing else to touch ! Not e ` en a roasted eel , or stewed , or fried ! Dry bread I 'd rather you 'd for me provide.
Of your 's allow me some at any rate , Pies , -LRB- devil take them ! -RRB- thoroughly I hate ; They 'll follow me to Paradise I fear , Or further yet ; -- Heav ` n keep me from such cheer ! THEIR noisy mirth the master thither drew , Who much desired the frolick to pursue ; person_1 friend , said he , I greatly feel surprise , That you so soon are weary grown of pies ; Have I not heard you frequently declare , Eel-pie 's of all , the most delicious fare ? Quite fickle , certainly , must be your taste ; Can any thing in me so strange be traced ? When I exchange a food which you admire ; person_0 blame and say , I never ought to tire ; person_0 do the very same ; in truth , my friend , No mark of folly ` tis , you may depend , In lord or squire , or citizen or clown , To change the bread that 's white for bit of brown : With more experience , you 'll with me agree , -- person_1 motto ever is -- VARIETY.
WHEN thus the master had himself expressed , The valet presently was less distressed ; Some arguments , howe'er , at first he used ; For , after all -- are fully we excused , When we our pleasure solely have in view ; Without regarding what 's to others due ? I relish change ; well , take it ; but ` tis best , To gain the belles with love of gold possessed ; person_2 that appears to me the proper plan ; In truth , our lover very soon began To practice this advice ; -- his voice and way Could angel-sweetness instantly convey.
HIS words were always gilt ; -LRB- impressive tongue ! -RRB- To gilded words will sure success belong.
In soft amours they 're ev ` ry thing ` tis plain The maxim 's certain , and our aim will gain ; person_1 meaning doubtless easily is seen ; A hundred times repeated this has been Th ' impression should be made so very deep , That I thereon can never silence keep ; person_2 this the constant burden of my song -- To gilded words will sure success belong.
THEY easily persuade the beauteous dame ; Her dog , her maid , duenna , all the same ; The husband sometimes too , and him we 've shown 'Twas necessary here to gain alone ; By golden eloquence his soul was lulled ; Although from ancient orators not culled : Their books retained have nothing of the kind ; Our jealous spouse indulgent grew we find.
He followed e ` en , ` tis said , the other 's plan -- person_2 , thence his dishes to exchange began.
THE master and his fav ` rite 's freaks around ; Continually the table-talk were found ; He always thought the newest face the best : Where'er he could , each beauty he caressed ; The wife , the widow , daughter , servant-maid , The nymph of field or town : -- with all he played ; person_2 , while he breathed , the same would always be ; His motto ever was -- VARIETY"
FAMED Paris ne'er within its walls had got , Such magick charms as were Aminta 's lot , Youth , beauty , temper , fortune , she possessed , person_2 all that should a husband render blessed , The mother still retained her ` neath the wing ; Her father 's riches well might lovers bring ; Whate'er his daughter wished , he would provide , Amusements , jewels , dress , and much beside.
BLITHE person_0 for her having felt the dart , The belle received the offer of his heart ; So well he managed and expressed his flame.
That soon her lord and master he became , By Hymen 's right divine , you may conceive , person_2 nothing short of it you should believe.
A YEAR had passed , and still our charming pair , Were always pleased , and blisses seemed to share ; -LRB- The honeymoon appeared but just began -RRB- person_2 hopes were entertained to have a son , When person_0 on the subject chanced to touch : person_1 truth , said he , my soul is troubled much ; There is a fact , my dear , to you I 'll tell : I wish sincerely -LRB- since I love so well -RRB- That for another , I had never known Such fond affection as to you I 've shown ; person_2 none but you had entered in my breast , So worthy ev ` ry way to be caressed.
I have howe'er experienced other flame ; The fault 's acknowledged : I confess my shame.
'Twas in a wood ; the nymph was young and nice , person_2 Cupid only near to give advice ; So well he managed : -- or so ill , you 'll say ; A little girl I 've living at this day.
WHAT , cried Aminta , now to you I 'll state ; What happened once to be your spouse 's fate ; I was at home alone , to say the truth , When thither came by chance a sprightly youth.
The lad was handsome , with engaging mien ; I felt his worth : -- my nature is serene ; person_1 short so many things were our employ , I 've still upon my hands a little boy.
THESE words no sooner had escaped the belle , Than person_0 into jealous torments fell ; With rage he left the room ; and on his way , A large pack-saddle near his footsteps lay , Which on his back he put , then cried aloud , I 'm saddled ! see ; round quickly came a crowd ; The father , mother , all the servants ran ; The neighbors too ; the husband then began To state the circumstance that gave him pain ; person_2 fully all the folly to explain.
THE reader must not fail to keep in mind ; Aminta 's parents were both rich and kind , person_2 having only her to be their heir , The aged couple let the youthful pair , With all their train , within the house reside , person_2 tranquilly the moments seemed to glide.
THU mother fondly to her daughter flew ; The father followed , keeping her in view ; The dame went in , but he remained without : To listen he designed beyond a doubt ; The door was on the jar ; the sage drew near ; person_1 short , to all they said , he lent an ear ; The lady thus he heard reproach her child : You 're clearly wrong ; most silly may be styled ; I 've many simpletons and ninnies seen ; But such as you before there ne'er has been : Who 'd have believed you indiscreet like this ? Who forced you to reveal what was amiss ? What obligation to divulge the fact ? More girls than one have failed to be exact ; The Devil 's crafty ; folks are wicked too ; But that is no excuse , however true ; person_1 convents all of us should be immured , Till perfectly by Hymen 's bands secured.
E ` EN I who speak , alas ! have troubles met ; Within my bosom oft I feel regret ; Three children ere my marriage I had got ; Have I your father told this secret blot ? Have we together been less happy found ? The list ` ner had no sooner heard the sound , But like a man distracted off he flew ; The saddle 's girth , which hazard near him threw ; He took and fastened tightly ` bout his waist , Then bawled around and round with anxious haste ; I 'm girth 'd ! d'ye see , completely taken in ; The people stared , an ` gan to laugh and grin.
Though each was conscious , if the truth were known ; The ridicule in turn might be his own.
BOTH husbands madly ran from cross to square , person_2 with their foolish clamors rent the air ; I 'm saddled , hooted one ; I 'm girth 'd , said this ; The latter some perhaps will doubt , and hiss ; Such things however should not be disbelieved For instance , recollect -LRB- what 's well received -RRB- , When Roland learned the pleasures and the charms ; His rival , in the grot , had in his arms , With fist he gave his horse so hard a blow , It sunk at once to realms of poignant woe.
Might he not , training , round the hapless beast , From weight of saddle have its back released , person_2 putting it upon his own , have cried , I 'm saddled , I 'm girth 'd , and much beside ; -LRB- No matter this or that , since each is good , -RRB- Which Echo would repeat from hill to wood ? You see that truth may be discovered here ; That 's not enough ; its object should appear ; person_2 that I 'll show as further we proceed ; Your full attention I of course shall need.
THE happy person_0 clearly seems to me , As poor a thing as any we shall see ; His confidence would soon have spoiled the whole , To leave a belle like this without control ! Her simplicity I much admire : -- Confess herself to spouse , as if a friar ! What silliness ! imprudence is a word , Which here to use would truly be absurd.
To my discourse two heads alone remain ; The marriage vow you always should maintain ; Its faith the pair should ever keep in view : The path of honor steadily pursue.
If some mishap howe'er should chance to glide ; person_2 make you limp on one or t ` other side , Endeavour , of the fault , to make the best , person_2 keep the secret locked within your breast ; Your own consideration never lose ; Untruth ` tis pardonable then to use.
No doubt my pages nice advice supply ; Is ` t what I 've followed ? -- No , you may rely !"
IF truth give pleasure , surely we should try ; person_0 found our tales on what we can rely ; Th ' experiment repeatedly I 've made , And seen how much realities persuade : They draw attention : confidence awake ; Fictitious names however we should take , And then the rest detail without disguise : ` Tis thus I mean to manage my supplies.
IT happened then near Mans , a Normand town , For sapient people always of renown , A maid not long ago a lover had Brisk , pleasing , ev ` ry way a handsome lad ; The down as yet was scarcely on his chin ; The girl was such as many wished to win : Had charms and fortune , all that was desired , And by the Mansian sparks was much admired ; Around they swarmed , but vain was all their art person_0o much our youth possessed the damsel 's heart.
THE parents , in their wisdom , meant the fair Should marry one who was a wealthy heir ; But she contrived to manage matters well ; In spite of ev ` ry thing which might repel , -LRB- I know not how -RRB- at length he had access ; Though whether through indulgence or address , It matters not : perhaps his noble blood Might work a change when fully understood : The LUCKY , ev ` ry thing contrives to please ; The rest can nothing but misfortune seize.
THE lover had success ; the parents thought His merit such as prudence would have sought ; What more to wish ? -- the miser 's hoarded store : The golden age 's wealth is now no more , A silly shadow , phantom of the brain ; O happy time ! I see indeed with pain , Thou wilt return : -- in MAINE thou shalt arise ; Thy innocence , we fondly may surmise , Had seconded our lover 's ardent flame , And hastened his possession of the dame.
THE slowness usually in parents found , Induced the girl , whose heart by LOVE was bound ; person_0 celebrate the Hymeneal scene , As in the statutes of Cythera 's queen.
Our legendary writers this define A present contract , where they nothing sign ; The thing is common ; -- marriage made in haste : LOVE 'S perparation : Hymen 's bit for taste.
NOT much examination Cupid made , As parent , lawyer , priest , he lent his aid , And soon concluded matters as desired ; The Mansian wisdom no ways was required.
OUR spark was satisfied , and with his belle , Passed nights so happy , nothing could excel ; ` Twere easy to explain ; -- the double keys , And gifts designed the chambermaid to please , Made all secure , and ev ` ry joy abound ; The soft delights with secrecy were crowned.
IT happened that our fair one evening said , person_0 her who of each infant step had led , But of the present secret nothing knew : -- I feel unwell ; pray tell me what to do.
The other answered , you my dear must take A remedy that easily I 'll make , A clyster you shall have to-morrow morn : By me most willingly it will be borne.
WHEN midnight came the sly gallant appeared , Unluckily no doubt , but he revered The moments that so pleasantly were passed , Which always seemed , he thought , to glide too fast ; Relief he sought , for ev ` ry one below Is destined torments more or less to know.
He not a word was told of things designed , And just as our gallant to sleep inclined , As oft 's the case at length with lovers true , Quite open bright Aurora 's portals flew , And with a smile the aged dame arrived ; The apparatus properly contrived , Was in her hand , she hastened to the bed , And took the side that to the stripling led.
OUR lady fair was instantly confused , Or she precaution properly had used , 'Twas easy to have kept a steady face , And ` neath the clothes the other 's head to place.
Pass presently beyond the hidden swain , And t ` other side with rapid motion gain , A thing quite natural , we should suppose ; But fears o ` erpow ` red ; the frightened damsel chose person_0 hide herself , then whispered her gallant , What mighty terrors made her bosom pant.
The youth was sage , and coolly undertook person_0 offer for her : -- t ` other ` gan to look , With spectacles on nose : soon all went right ; Adieu , she cried , and then withdrew from sight.
Heav ` n guard her steps , and all conduct away , Whose presence secret friendships would betray : SHOULD this be thought a silly , idle tale ; -LRB- And that opinion may perhaps prevail -RRB- person_0 censure me , enough will surely try , For criticks are severe , and these will cry , Your lady like a simpleton escaped ; Her character you better might have shaped ; Which makes us doubt the truth of what is told : Naught in your prologue like it we behold.
` TWERE sueless to reply : ` twould endless prove : No arguments such censurers could move ; On men like these , devoid of sense or taste , In vain might Cicero his rhet ` rick waste.
Sufficient ` tis for me , that what is here , I got from those who ev ` ry-where appear The friends of truth : -- let others say the same ; What more would they expect should be my aim ?"
ONCE on a time , as hist ` ry 's page relates , A lord , possessed of many large estates , Was angry with a poor and humble clod , Who tilled his grounds and feared his very nod.
Th ' offence -LRB- as often happens -RRB- was but small , But on him , vowed the peer , his rage should fall -- Said he , a halter , rascal , you deserve ; You 'll never from the gallows-turnpike swerve : Or , soon or late you swinging will be found Who , born for hanging , ever yet was drowned ? Howe'er you 'll smile to hear my lenient voice ; Observe , three punishments await your choice ; Take which you will.
-- The first is , you shall eat , Of strongest garlick , thirty heads complete ; No drink you 'll have between , nor sleep , nor rest ; You know a breach of promise I detest.
Or , on your shoulders further I propose , To give you , with a cudgel , thirty blows.
Or , if more pleasing , that you truly pay , The sum of thirty pounds without delay.
THE peasant ` gan to turn things in his mind : -- Said he , to take the heads I 'm not inclined ; No drink , you say , between ; that makes it worse ; To eat the garlick thus , would prove a curse.
Nor can I suffer on my tender back , That , with a cudgel , thirty blows you thwack.
Still harder thirty pounds to pay appeared ; Uncertain how to act , he hanging feared.
The noble peer he begged , upon his knees , His penitence to hear , and sentence ease.
But mercy dwelled not with the angry lord Is this , cried he , the answer ? -- bring a cord.
The peasant , trembling lest his life was sought ; The garlick chose , which presently was brought.
UPON a dish my lord the number told ; Clod no way liked the garlick to behold.
With piteous mien the garlick head he took , Then on it num ` rous ways was led to look , And grumbling much , began to spit and eat , just like a cat with mustard on her meat , To touch it with his tongue he durst not do ; He knew not how to act or what pursue.
The peer , delighted at the man 's distress , The garlick made him bite , and chew , and press , Then gulp it down as if delicious fare ; The first he passed ; the second made him swear ; The third he found was every whit as sad , He wished the devil had it , 'twas so bad.
In short , when at the twelfth our wight arrived , He thought his mouth and throat of skin deprived.
Said he , some drink I earnestly intreat ; What , Greg ` ry , cried my lord , dost feel a heat ; In thy repasts dost love to wet thy jaws ? Well ! well ! I wo n't object ; thou know ` st my laws ; Much good may ` t do thee ; here , some wine , some wine ! Yet recollect , to drink , since you design , That afterward , my friend , you 'll have to choose The thirty blows , or thirty pounds to lose.
But , cried the peasant , I sincerely pray , Your lordship 's goodness , that the garlick may Be taken in the account , for as to pelf , Where can an humble lab ` rer , like myself , Expect the sum of thirty pounds to seize ? Then , said the peer , be cudgelled if you please ; Take thirty thwacks ; for naught the garlick goes.
To moisten well his throat , and ease his woes , The peasant drank a copious draught of wine , And then to bear the cudgel would resign.
A SINGLE blow he patiently endured ; The second , howsoe'er , his patience cured ; The third was more severe , and each was worse ; The punishment he now began to curse ; Two lusty wights , with cudgels thrashed his back And regularly gave him thwack and thwack ; He cried , he roared , for grace he begged his lord , Who marked each blow , and would no ease accord ; But carefully observed , from time to time , That lenity he always thought sublime ; His gravity preserved ; considered too The blows received and what continued due.
AT length , when Greg ` ry twenty strokes had got , He piteously exclaimed : -- if more 's my lot I never shall survive ! Oh ! pray forgive , If you desire , my lord , that I should live.
Then down with thirty pounds , replied the peer , Since you the blows so much pretend to fear ; I 'm sorry for you ; but if all the gold Be not prepared , your godfather , I 'm told , Can lend a part ; yet , since so far you 've been , To flinch the rest you surely wo n't be seen.
THE wretched peasant to his lordship flew , And trembling cried -- ` tis up ! the number view ! A scrutiny was made , which nothing gained ; No choice but pay the money now remained ; This grieved him much , and o ` er the fellow 's face ; The dewy drops were seen to flow apace.
All useless proved : -- the full demand he sent , With which the peer expressed himself content.
Unlucky he whoe'er his lord offends ! To golden ore , howe'er , the proud man bends : 'TWAS vain that Gregory a pardon prayed ; For trivial faults the peasant dearly paid ; His throat enflamed -- his tender back well beat -- His money gone -- and all to make complete , Without the least deduction for the pain , The blows and garlick gave the trembling swain"
THERE was once a young fellow who enlisted as a soldier , conducted himself bravely , and was always the foremost when it rained bullets.
So long as the war lasted , all went well , but when peace was made , he received his dismissal , and the captain said he might go where he liked.
His parents were dead , and he had no longer a home , so he went to his brothers and begged them to take him in , and keep him until war broke out again.
The brothers , however , were hard-hearted and said , `` What can we do with thee ? thou art of no use to us ; go and make a living for thyself"
The soldier had nothing left but his gun ; he took that on his shoulder , and went forth into the world.
He came to a wide heath , on which nothing was to be seen but a circle of trees ; under these he sat sorrowfully down , and began to think over his fate.
`` I have no money ,"
thought he , `` I have learned no trade but that of fighting , and now that they have made peace they do n't want me any longer ; so I see beforehand that I shall have to starve"
All at once he heard a rustling , and when he looked round , a strange man stood before him , who wore a green coat and looked right stately , but had a hideous cloven foot.
`` I know already what thou art in need of ,"
said the man ; `` gold and possessions shall thou have , as much as thou canst make away with do what thou wilt , but first I must know if thou art fearless , that I may not bestow my money in vain"
`` A soldier and fear -- how can those two things go together ?"
he answered ; `` thou canst put me to the proof"
`` Very well , then ,"
answered the man , `` look behind thee"
The soldier turned round , and saw a large bear , which came growling towards him.
`` Oho !"
cried the soldier , `` I will tickle thy nose for thee , so that thou shalt soon lose thy fancy for growling ,"
and he aimed at the bear and shot it through the muzzle ; it fell down and never stirred again.
`` I see quite well ,"
said the stranger , `` that thou art not wanting in courage , but there is still another condition which thou wilt have to fulfil"
`` If it does not endanger my salvation ,"
replied the soldier , who knew very well who was standing by him.
`` If it does , I 'll have nothing to do with it"
`` Thou wilt look to that for thyself ,"
answered Greencoat ; `` thou shalt for the next seven years neither wash thyself , nor comb thy beard , nor thy hair , nor cut thy nails , nor say one paternoster.
I will give thee a coat and a cloak , which during this time thou must wear.
If thou diest during these seven years , thou art mine ; if thou remainest alive , thou art free , and rich to boot , for all the rest of thy life"
The soldier thought of the great extremity in which he now found himself , and as he so often had gone to meet death , he resolved to risk it now also , and agreed to the terms.
The Devil took off his green coat , gave it to the soldier , and said , `` If thou hast this coat on thy back and puttest thy hand into the pocket , thou wilt always find it full of money"
Then he pulled the skin off the bear and said , `` This shall be thy cloak , and thy bed also , for thereon shalt thou sleep , and in no other bed shalt thou lie , and because of this apparel shalt thou be called person_0"
After this the Devil vanished.
The soldier put the coat on , felt at once in the pocket , and found that the thing was really true.
Then he put on the bearskin and went forth into the world , and enjoyed himself , refraining from nothing that did him good and his money harm.
During the first year his appearance was passable , but during the second he began to look like a monster.
His hair covered nearly the whole of his face , his beard was like a piece of coarse felt , his fingers had claws , and his face was so covered with dirt that if cress had been sown on it , it would have come up.
Whosoever saw him , ran away , but as he everywhere gave the poor money to pray that he might not die during the seven years , and as he paid well for everything he still always found shelter.
In the fourth year , he entered an inn where the landlord would not receive him , and would not even let him have a place in the stable , because he was afraid the horses would be scared.
But as person_0 thrust his hand into his pocket and pulled out a handful of ducats , the host let himself be persuaded and gave him a room in an outhouse.
person_0 was , however , obliged to promise not to let himself be seen , lest the inn should get a bad name.
As person_0 was sitting alone in the evening , and wishing from the bottom of his heart that the seven years were over , he heard a loud lamenting in a neighboring room.
He had a compassionate heart , so he opened the door , and saw an old man weeping bitterly , and wringing his hands.
person_0 went nearer , but the man sprang to his feet and tried to escape from him.
At last when the man perceived that person_0 's voice was human he let himself be prevailed on , and by kind words bearskin succeeded so far that the old man revealed the cause of his grief.
His property had dwindled away by degrees , he and his daughters would have to starve , and he was so poor that he could not pay the innkeeper , and was to be put in prison.
`` If that is your only trouble ,"
said person_0 , `` I have plenty of money"
He caused the innkeeper to be brought thither , paid him and put a purse full of gold into the poor old man 's pocket besides.
When the old man saw himself set free from all his troubles he did not know how to be grateful enough.
`` Come with me ,"
said he to person_0 ; `` my daughters are all miracles of beauty , choose one of them for thyself as a wife.
When she hears what thou hast done for me , she will not refuse thee.
Thou dost in truth look a little strange , but she will soon put thee to rights again"
This pleased person_0 well , and he went.
When the eldest saw him she was so terribly alarmed at his face that she screamed and ran away.
The second stood still and looked at him from head to foot , but then she said , `` How can I accept a husband who no longer has a human form ? The shaven bear that once was here and passed itself off for a man pleased me far better , for at any rate it wore a hussar 's dress and white gloves.
If it were nothing but ugliness , I might get used to that"
The youngest , however , said , `` Dear father , that must be a good man to have helped you out of your trouble , so if you have promised him a bride for doing it , your promise must be kept"
It was a pity that person_0 's face was covered with dirt and with hair , for if not they might have seen how delighted he was when he heard these words.
He took a ring from his finger , broke it in two , and gave her one half , the other he kept for himself.
He wrote his name , however , on her half , and hers on his , and begged her to keep her piece carefully , and then he took his leave and said , `` I must still wander about for three years , and if I do not return then , thou art free , for I shall be dead.
But pray to God to preserve my life"
The poor betrothed bride dressed herself entirely in black , and when she thought of her future bridegroom , tears came into her eyes.
Nothing but contempt and mockery fell to her lot from her sisters.
`` Take care ,"
said the eldest , `` if thou givest him thy hand , he will strike his claws into it"
`` Beware !"
said the second.
`` Bears like sweet things , and if he takes a fancy to thee , he will eat thee up"
`` Thou must always do as he likes ,"
began the elder again , `` or else he will growl"
And the second continued , `` But the wedding will be a merry one , for bears dance well"
The bride was silent , and did not let them vex her.
person_0 , however , traveled about the world from one place to another , did good where he was able , and gave generously to the poor that they might pray for him.
At length , as the last day of the seven years dawned , he went once more out on to the heath , and seated himself beneath the circle of trees.
It was not long before the wind whistled , and the Devil stood before him and looked angrily at him ; then he threw person_0 his old coat , and asked for his own green one back.
`` We have not got so far as that yet ,"
answered person_0 , `` thou must first make me clean"
Whether the Devil liked it or not , he was forced to fetch water , and wash person_0 , comb his hair , and cut his nails.
After this , he looked like a brave soldier , and was much handsomer than he had ever been before.
When the Devil had gone away , person_0 was quite lighthearted.
He went into the town , put on a magnificent velvet coat , seated himself in a carriage drawn by four white horses , and drove to his bride 's house.
No one recognized him , the father took him for a distinguished general , and led him into the room where his daughters were sitting.
He was forced to place himself between the two eldest , they helped him to wine , gave him the best pieces of meat , and thought that in all the world they had never seen a handsomer man.
The bride , however , sat opposite to him in her black dress , and never raised her eyes , nor spoke a word.
When at length he asked the father if he would give him one of his daughters to wife , the two eldest jumped up , ran into their bedrooms to put on splendid dresses , for each of them fancied she was the chosen one.
The stranger , as soon as he was alone with his bride , brought out his half of the ring , and threw it in a glass of wine which he reached across the table to her.
She took the wine , but when she had drunk it , and found the half ring lying at the bottom , her heart began to beat.
She got the other half , which she wore on a ribbon round her neck , joined them , and saw that the two pieces fitted exactly together.
Then said he , `` I am thy betrothed bridegroom , whom thou sawest as person_0 , but through God 's grace I have again received my human form , and have once more become clean"
He went up to her , embraced her , and gave her a kiss.
In the meantime the two sisters came back in full dress , and when they saw that the handsome man had fallen to the share of the youngest , and heard that he was person_0 , they ran out full of anger and rage.
One of them drowned herself in the well , the other hanged herself on a tree.
In the evening , some one knocked at the door , and when the bridegroom opened it , it was the Devil in his green coat , who said , `` Seest thou , I have now got two souls in the place of thy one !"
WHAT various ways in which a thing is told Some truth abuse , while others fiction hold ; person_12 stories we invention may admit ; person_4 diff ` rent ` tis with what historick writ ; Posterity demands that truth should then person_12spire relation , and direct the pen.
ALACIEL 'S story 's of another kind , person_6 I 've a little altered it , you 'll find ; Faults some may see , and others disbelieve ; ` person_8 all the same : -- ` twill never make me grieve ; person_7 's mem ` ry , it is very clear , Can scarcely by it lose ; there 's naught to fear.
Two facts important I have kept in view , person_12 which the author fully I pursue ; The one -- no less than eight the belle possessed , Before a husband 's sight her eyes had blessed ; The other is , the prince she was to wed Ne'er seemed to heed this trespass on his bed , person_4 thought , perhaps , the beauty she had got Would prove to any one a happy lot.
HOWE ` ER this fair , amid adventures dire , More sufferings shared than malice could desire ; Though eight times , doubtless , she exchanged her knight person_2 proof , that she her spouse was led to slight ; 'Twas gratitude , compassion , or good will ; The dread of worse ; -- she 'd truly had her fill ; Excuses just , to vindicate her fame , Who , spite of troubles , fanned the monarch 's flame : person_0 eight the relict , still a maid received ; -- Apparently , the prince her pure believed ; For , though at times we may be duped in this , Yet , after such a number -- strange to miss ! person_6 I submit to those who 've passed the scene , If they , to my opinion , do not lean.
THE king of Alexandria , Zarus named , A daughter had , who all his fondness claimed , A star divine person_7 shone around , The charms of beauty 's queen were in her found ; person_10 soul celestial , gracious , good , and kind , person_6 all-accomplished , all-complying mind.
THE rumor of her worth spread far and wide , The king of Garba asked her for his bride , person_6 -LRB- the sov ` reign of the spot , -RRB- person_9 other princes had a pref ` rence got.
THE fair , howe'er , already felt the smart person_0 's arrow , and had lost her heart ; person_4 'twas not known : princesses love conceal , person_6 scarcely dare its whispers fond reveal ; person_10in their bosoms poignant pain remains , Though flesh and blood , like lasses of the plains.
THE noble person_5 , one of zarus ' court , A handsome youth , as histories report , person_7 pleased ; a mutual flame arose , Though this they durst not venture to disclose Or , if expressed , 'twas solely by the eyes : -- Soul-speaking language , nothing can disguise ! AFFIANCED thus , the princess , with a sigh , Prepared to part , and fully to comply.
The father trusted her to person_5 's care , person_10out the least suspicion of the snare ; They soon embarked and ploughed the briny main ; person_10 anxious hopes in time the port to gain.
WHEN they , from Egypt 's coast had sailed a week ; person_9 gain the wind they saw a pirate seek , Which having done , he t ` wards them bore in haste , person_9 take the ship in which our fair was placed.
THE battle quickly raged ; alike they erred ; The pirates slaughter loved , and blood preferred , person_6 , long accustomed to the stormy tide , Were most expert , and on their skill relied.
person_12 numbers , too , superior they were found ; person_4 Hisipal 's valor greatly shone around , person_6 kept the combat undecided long ; person_11 length Grifonio , wond ` rous large and strong ; person_10 twenty sturdy , pirates got on board , person_6 many soon lay gasping by the sword.
Where'er he trod , grim death and horror reigned ; person_11 length , the round the noble person_5 gained.
His nervous arm laid many wretches low Rage marked his eyes , whene'er he dealt a blow : BUT , while the youth was thus engaged in fight , Grifonio ran to gain a sweeter sight ; The princess was on board full well he knew ; person_2 time he lost , but to her chamber flew ; person_6 , since his pleasures seemed to be her doom ; He bore her like a sparrow from the room : person_4 not content with such a charming fair , He took her diamonds , ornaments for hair , person_6 those dear pledges ladies oft receive , When they a lover 's ardent flame believe.
person_12deed , I 've heard it hinted as a truth , -LRB- person_6 very probable for such a youth , -RRB- That person_5 , while on board , his flame revealed ; person_6 what chagrin she felt was then concealed , The passage thinking an improper time , person_9 shew a marked displeasure at his crime.
THE pirate-chief who carried off his prey , Had short-lived joy , for , wishing to convey His charming captive from the ship with speed ; One vessel chanced a little to recede , Although securely fastened by the crew , person_10 grappling hooks , as usually they do , When quite intent to pass , young person_5 made A blow , that dead at once the ruffian laid ; His head and shoulders , severed from the trunk ; Fell in the sea , and to the bottom sunk , Abjuring Mahomet , and all the tribe person_0 idle prophets , Catholics proscribe ; Erect the rest upon the legs remained ; The very posture as before retained ; This curious sight no doubt a laugh had raised , -- person_4 in the moment , she , so lately praised , person_10 dread Grifonio , fell beyond their view ; person_9 save her , straight the gallant person_5 flew.
The ships , for want of pilots at the helm , person_11 random drifted over Neptune 's realm.
GRIM death the pirate forced to quit his slave ; Buoyed up by clothes , she floated on the wave , 'Till person_5 succor lent , who saw 'twas vain person_9 try with her the vessel to regain.
He could , with greater ease , the fair convey person_9 certain rocks , and thither bent his way ; Those rocks to sailors oft destruction proved , person_4 now the couple saved , who thither moved : ` person_8 even said the jewels were not lost , person_4 sweet person_7 , howsoever tost , Preserved the caskets , which with strings were tied ; person_6 seizing these , the treasure drew aside.
OUR swimmer on his back the princess bore ; The rock attained ; but hardships were not o ` er ; Misfortunes dire the noble pair pursued person_6 famine , worst of ills , around was viewed.
person_2 ship was near ; the light soon passed away ; The night the same ; again appeared the day ; person_2 vessel hove in sight ; no food to eat ; Our couple 's wretchedness seemed now complete ; Hope left them both , and , mutual passion moved , Their situation more tormenting proved.
LONG time in silence they each other eyed person_11 length , to speak the lovely charmer tried Said she , ` tis useless , person_5 , to bewail : Tears , with the cruel Parcae , naught avail ; Each other to console be now our aim ; Grim death his course will follow still the same.
person_9 mitigate the smart let 's try anew ; person_12 such a place as this few joys accrue.
CONSOLE each other , say you ? person_5 cried ; What can console when forced one 's love to hide ? Besides , fair princess , ev ` ry way ` tis clear , Improper ` twere for you to love while here ; I equally could death or famine brave ; person_4 you I tremble for , and wish to save.
THESE words so pained the fair , that gushing tears Bedewed person_7 's cheeks , her looks spoke fears ; The ardent flame which she 'd so long concealed ; Burst forth in sighs , and all its warmth revealed ; While such emotion person_5 's eyes expressed , That more than words his anxious wish confessed.
These tender scenes were followed by a kiss , The prelude sweet of soft enchanting bliss ; person_4 whether taken , or by choice bestowed , Alike 'twas clear , their heaving bosoms glowed.
THOSE vows now o ` er , said person_5 with a sigh , person_12 this adventure , if we 're doomed to die , person_12diff ` rent surely ` tis , the prey to be person_0 birds of air , or fishes of the sea ; My reason tells me ev ` ry grave 's the same , Return we must , at last , from whence we came , Here ling ` ring death alone we can expect ; person_9 brave the waves ` tis better to elect ; I yet have strength , and ` tis not far to land ; The wind sets fair : let 's try to gain the strand ; From rock to rock we 'll go : I many view , Where I can rest ; to THIS we 'll bid adieu.
TO move , person_7 readily agreed ; Again our couple ventured to proceed ; The casket safe in tow ; the weather hot ; From rock to rock with care our swimmer got ; The princess , anxious on his back to keep : -- New mode of traversing the wat ` ry deep.
WITH Heav 'n' s assistance , and the rocks for rest , The youth , by hunger and fatigue oppressed , Uneasiness of mind , weighed down with care , person_2t for himself , but safety of the fair , A fast of two long tedious days now o ` er , The casket and the belle he brought on shore : I THINK you cry -- how wond ` rously exact , person_9 bring the casket into ev ` ry act ! Is that a circumstance of weight I pray ? It truly seems so , and without delay , You 'll see if I be wrong ; no airy flight , Or jeer , or raillery , have I in sight.
Had I embarked our couple in a ship person_10out or cash or jewels for the trip , Distress had followed , you must be aware ; ` person_8 past our pow ` r to live on love or air ; person_12 vain AFFECTION ev ` ry effort tries person_12exorable hunger ALL defies.
THE casket , with the diamonds proved a source , person_9 which 'twas requisite to have recourse ; Some person_5 sold , and others put in pawn , person_6 purchased , near the coast , a house and lawn ; person_10 woods , extensive park , and pleasure ground ; person_6 many bow ` rs and shady walks around , Where charming hours they passed , and this 'twas plain , person_10out the casket they could n ` er obtain.
BENEATH the wood there was a secret grot , Where lovers , when they pleased , concealment got , A quiet , gloomy , solitary place , Designed by nature for the billing race.
ONE day , as through the grove a walk they sought , The god of love our couple thither brought ; His wishes , person_5 , as they went along , Explained im part by words direct and strong ; The rest his sighs expressed , -LRB- they spoke the soul ; -RRB- -- The princess , trembling , listened to the whole.
SAID he , we now are in a place retired , Unknown to man , -LRB- such spots how oft desired ! -RRB- Let 's take advantage of the present hour : person_2 joys , but those of LOVE , are in our pow ` r ; All others see withdrawn ! and no one knows We even live ; perhaps both friends and foes Believe us in the belly of a whale ; Allow me , lovely princess , to prevail ; Bestow your kindness , or , without delay , Those charms to person_3 let me convey.
Yet , why go thither ? -- happy you could make The man , whose constancy no perils shake , What would you more ? -- his passion 's ardent grown ; person_6 surely you 've enough resistance shown.
SUCH tender elocution person_5 used , That e ` en to marble , ` Twould have warmth infused ; While fair person_7 , on the bark of trees , person_10 bodkin wrote , apparently at ease.
person_4 drew her thoughts to higher things , Than merely graving what from fancy springs.
Her lover and the place , at once assured , That such a secret would be well secured ; A tempting bait , which made her , with regret , Resist the witching charm that her beset.
UNLUCKILY , 'twas then the month of May , When youthful hearts are often led astray , person_6 soft desire can scarcely be concealed , person_4 presses through the pores to be revealed.
How many do we see , by slow degrees , person_6 , step by step , accord their ALL to please , Who , at the onset , never dreamed to grant The smallest favor to their fond gallant.
The god of love so archly acts his part , person_6 , in unguarded moments , melts the heart , That many belles have tumbled in the snare , Who , how it happened , scarcely could declare.
WHEN they had reached the pleasing secret spot ; Young person_5 wished to go within the grot ; Though nearly overcome , she this declined ; person_4 then his services arose to mind ; Her life from Ocean 's waves , her honor too , person_9 him she owed ; what could he have in view ? A something , which already has been shown , Was saved through person_5 's nervous arm alone : Said he , far better bless a real friend , Than have each treasure rifled in the end , By some successful ruffian ; think it o ` er ; You little dream for whom you guard the store.
THE princess felt the truth of this remark , person_6 half surrendered to the loving spark ; A show ` r obliged the pair , without delay , person_9 seek a shed : -- the place I need not say ; The rest within the grotto lies concealed : -- The scenes of person_1 ne'er should be revealed.
person_7 blame , or not -- I 've many known , person_10 less excuses , who 've like favors shown.
ALONE the cavern witnessed not their bliss ; person_12 love , a point once gained , naught feels amiss , If trees could speak that grew within the dell , What joys they viewed -- what stories they might tell ! The park , the lawn , the pleasure grounds , and bow ` rs , The belts of roses , and the beds of flow ` rs , All , all could whisper something of the kind ; person_11 length , both longed their friends again to find , Quite cloyed with love , they sighed to be at court ; Thus spoke the fair her wishes to support.
LOVED youth , to ME you must be ever dear ; person_9 doubt it would ungen ` rous now appear ; person_4 tell me , pray , what 's love without desire , Devoid of fear , and nothing to acquire ? Flame unconfined is soon exhausted found , person_4 , thwarted in its course ` twill long abound ; I fear this spot , which we so highly prize , Will soon appear a desert in our eyes , person_6 prove at last our grave ; relieve my woe ; person_11 once to Alexandria , person_5 go ; Alive pronounced , you presently will see , What worthy people think of you and me ; Conceal our residence , declare you came , My journey to prepare , -LRB- your certain aim , -RRB- person_6 see that I 've a num ` rous escort sent , person_9 guard me from a similar event.
By it , believe me , you shall nothing lose ; person_6 this is what I willingly would choose ; For , be I single , or in Hymen 's band , I 'd have you follow me by sea and land , person_6 be assured , should favor I withdraw , That I 've observed in you some glaring flaw.
WERE her intentions fully as expressed , Or contrary to what her lips confessed , person_2 matter which her view , 'twas very plain , If she would person_5 's services retain , ` Twere right the youth with promises to feed , While his assistance she so much must need : As soon as he was ready to depart She pressed him fondly to her glowing heart , person_6 charged him with a letter to the king ; This person_5 hastened to the prince to bring ; Each sail he crowded : -- plied with ev ` ry oar ; A wind quite fair soon brought him to shore ; person_9 court he went , where all with eager eyes , Demanded if he lived , amid surprise , person_6 where he left the princess ; what her state ? These questions answered , person_5 , quite elate , Procured the escort , which , without delay , Though leaving him behind , was sent away : person_2 dark mistrust retained the noble youth ; person_4 Zarus wished it : such appeared the truth.
BY one of early years the troop was led , A handsome lad , and elegantly bred.
He landed with his party near the park.
person_6 these in two divided ere 'twas dark.
ONE half he left a guard upon the shore , person_6 with the other hastened to the door , Where dwelled the belle , who daily fairer grew : Our chief was smitten instantly at view ; person_6 , fearing opportunity again , Like this , perhaps , he never might obtain , Avowed at once his passion to the fair ; person_11 which she frowned , and told him , with an air ; person_9 recollect his duty , and her rank : -- person_10 equals only , he should be so frank.
ON these occasions , prudent ` tis to show Your disappointment by a face of woe ; Seem ev ` ry way the picture of despair : -- This countenance our knight appeared to wear ; person_9 starve himself he vowed was his design ; person_9 use the poniard he should ne'er incline , For then no time for penitence would rest.
-- The princess of his folly made a jest.
He fasted one whole day ; she-tried in vain person_9 make him from the enterprise refrain.
AT length , the second day she ` gan to feel , person_6 strong emotion scarcely could conceal.
What ! let a person die her charms could save ! 'Twas cruel , thus to treat a youth so brave.
Through pity , she at last , to please the chief , Consented to bestow on him relief ; For , favors , when conferred with sullen air , person_4 little gratify she was aware.
WHen satisfied the smart gallant appeared , person_6 anxiously to putting off adhered , Pretending that the wind and tide would fail ; The galleys sometimes were unfit to sail , Repairs required ; then further heard the news , That certain pirates had unpleasant views ; person_9 fall upon the escort they 'd contrived : person_11 length , a pirate suddenly arrived , Surprized the party left upon the shore , Destroyed the whole ; then sought the house for more , person_6 scaled the walls while darkness spread around.
The pirate was Grifonio 's second found , Who , in a trice , the noble mansion took , person_6 joy gave place to grief in ev ` ry look.
THe Alexandrian swore and cursed his lot ; The pirate soon the lady 's story got , person_6 , taking her aside , his share required Such impudence person_7 's patience tired , Who , ev ` ry thing refused with haughty air ; person_0 this , howe'er , the robber was aware ; person_12 Venus ' court no novice was he thought ; person_9 gain the princess anxiously he sought ; Said he , you 'd better take me as a friend ; I 'm more than pirate , and you 'll comprehend , As you 've obliged one dying swain to fast , You fast in turn , or you 'll give way at last ; ` person_8 justice this demands : we sons of sea Know how to deal with those of each degree ; Remember you will nothing have to eat , Till your surrender fully is complete.
NO haggling , princess pray , my word receive ; What could be done , her terror to relieve ? Above all law is might : -- ` twill take its course ; Entire submission is the last resource.
OF ` T what we would not , we 're obliged to do , When fate our steps with rigor will pursue.
person_2 folly greater than to heighten pain , When we are sensible relief is vain.
What she , through pity , to another gave , Might well be granted when herself ` twould save.
AT length she yielded to this suitor rude : -- person_2 grief so great , but what may be subdued.
` Twould in the pirate doubtless have been wise , The belle to move , and thus prevent surprise ; person_4 who , from folly in amours is free ? The god of love and wisdom ne'er agree.
WHILE our gay pirate thought himself at ease , The wind quite fair to sail when he might please , Dame Fortune , sleepy only while we wake , person_6 slily watching when repose we take , Contrived a trick the cunning knave to play , person_6 this was put in force ere break of day.
A LORD , the owner of a neighb ` ring seat , Unmarried ; -- fond of what was nice and neat , person_10out attachment , and devoid of care , Save something new to meet among the FAIR ; Grew tired of those he long around had viewed , person_2w constantly , in thought , our belle pursued.
He 'd money , friends , and credit all his days , person_6 could two thousand men at pleasure raise : One charming morn , together these he brought ; Said he , brave fellows , can it well be thought , That we allow a pirate , -LRB- dire disgrace ! -RRB- person_9 plunder as he likes before our face , person_6 make a slave of one whose form 's divine ? Let 's to the castle , such is my design , person_6 from the ruffian liberate the fair ; This evening ev ` ry one will here repair , Well armed , and then in silence we 'll proceed , -LRB- By night ` tis nothing will impede , -RRB- person_6 ere Aurora peeps , perform the task ; The only booty that I mean to ask Is this fair dame ; but not a slave to make , I anxiously desire to let her take Whate'er is her 's : -- restore her honor too ; All other things I freely leave to you ; Men , horses , baggage , in a word , the whole person_0 what the knavish rascals now control.
Another thing , howe'er : -- I wish to hang The pirate instantly , before his gang.
THIS speech so well succeeded to inspire , That scarcely could the men retain their ire.
THE evening came , the party soon arrived ; They ate not much , but drink their rage revived.
By such expensive treats we 've armies known , person_12 Germany and Flanders overthrown ; person_6 our commander was of this aware 'Twas prudent , surely , no expense to spare.
THEY carried ladders for the escalade , person_6 each was furnished with a tempered blade ; person_2 other thing embarrassing they 'd got ; person_2 drums ; but all was silent as the grot.
THEY reached the house when nearly break of day , The time old Morpheus ' slumbers often weigh ; The gang , with few exceptions , -LRB- then asleep -RRB- , Were sent , their vigils with grim death to keep.
THE chief hung up : -- the princess soon appeared ; Her spirits presently our champion cheered ; The pirate scarcely had her bosom moved : -- person_2 tears at least a marked affection proved ; person_4 , by her prayers she pardon sought to gain , For some who were not in the conflict slain ; Consoled the dying , and lamented those , Who , by the sword , had closed their book of woes : Then left the place without the least regret , Where such adventures and alarms she 'd met.
` person_8 said , indeed , she presently forgot The two gallants who last became her lot ; person_6 I can easily the fact believe : Removed from sight , but few for lovers grieve.
SHE , by her neighbor , was received , we 're told , ` Mid costly furniture and burnished gold ; We may suppose what splendor shone around , When all-attracting he would fain be found ; The best of wines ; each dish considered rare : -- The gods themselves received not better fare : Till then , person_7 ne'er had tasted wine ; Her faith forbade a liquor so divine ; person_6 , unacquainted with the potent juice , She much indulged at table in its use.
If lately LOVE disquieted her brain , New poison now pervaded ev ` ry vein ; Both fraught with danger to the beauteous FAIR , Whose charms should guarded be with ev ` ry care.
THE princess by the maids in bed was placed ; Then thither went the host with anxious haste , What sought he ? you will ask : -- mere torpid charms : -- I wish the like were clasped within my arms.
Give me as much , said one the other week , person_6 see if I 'd a neighbour 's kindness seek.
Through Morpheus ' sleepy pow ` r , and Bacchus ' wine : Our host , at length , completed his design.
ALACIEL , when at morn , she oped her eyes , Was quite o ` ercome with terror and surprise , person_2 tears would flow , and fear restrained her voice ; Unable to resist , she 'd got no choice.
A NIGHT thus passed , the wily lover said , Must surely give a license to your bed.
The princess thought the same ; but our gallant , Soon cloyed , for other conquests ` gan to pant.
THE host one evening from the mansion went ; A friend he left himself to represent , person_6 with the charming fair supply his place , Which , in the dark he thought , with easy grace , Might be effected , if he held his tongue , person_6 properly behaved the whole night long.
person_9 this the other willingly agreed ; -LRB- What friend would be refused , if thus in need ? -RRB- person_6 this new-comer had complete success He scarcely could his ecstacy express.
THE dame exclaimed : -- pray how could he pretend ; person_9 treat me so , and leave me to a friend ? The other thought the host was much to blame ; person_4 since ` tis o ` er , said he , be now your aim , person_9 punish his contempt of beauteous charms ; person_10 favors load me -- take me to your arms ; Caress with fond embrace ; bestow delight ; person_6 seem to love me , though in mere despite.
SHE followed his advice : avenged the wrong ; person_6 naught omitted , pleasures to prolong.
If he obtained his wishes from the fair , The host about it scarcely seemed to care.
THE sixth adventure of our charming belle , Some writers one way , some another tell ; Whence many think that favor I have shown , person_6 for her , one gallant the less would own.
Mere scandal this ; from truth I would nor swerve , person_9 please the fair : more credence I deserve ; Her husband only eight precursors had ; The fact was such ; -- I none suppress nor add.
THE host returned and found his friend content ; person_9 pardon him person_7 gave consent ; person_6 ` tween them things would equally divide person_0 royal bosoms clemency 's the pride.
WHILE thus the princess passed from hand to hand She oft amused her fancy ` mong a band person_0 charming belles that on her would attend , person_6 one of these she made an humble friend.
The fav ` rite in the house a lover had , A smart , engaging , handsome , clever lad , Well born , but much to violence inclined A wooer that could scarcely be confined person_9 gentle means , but oft his suit began , Where others end , who follow person_1 's plan.
IT one day happened , that this forward spark ; The girl we speak of , met within the park , person_6 to a summer-house the fav ` rite drew ; The course they took the princess chanced to view As wand ` ring near ; but neither swain nor fair , Suspicion had , that any one was there ; person_6 this gallant most confidently thought , The girl by force , might to his terms be brought ! His wretched temper , obstacle to love , person_6 ev ` ry bliss bestowed by heav ` n above , Had oft his hopes of favors lately marred ; person_6 fear , with those designs , had also jarred : The girl , howe'er , would likely have been kind , If opportunities had pleased her mind.
THE lover , now convinced that he was feared ; person_12 dark designs upon her persevered.
person_2 sooner had she entered , than our man Locked instantly the door , but vain his plan ; person_9 open it the princess had a key ; The girl her fault perceived , and tried to flee ; He held her fast ; the charmer loudly called ; The princess came -- or vainly she had squalled.
QUITE disappointed : overcome with ire , He wholly lost respect amid desire , person_6 swore by all the gods , that , ere they went , The one or other should to him consent ; Their hands he 'd firmly tie to have his way ; For help -LRB- the place so far -RRB- ` twere vain to pray ; person_9 take a lot was all that he 'd allow ; Come , draw , he said ; to Fortune you must bow ; person_2 haggling I request -- comply ; be still : Resolved I am with one to have my will.
WHAT has the princess done ? the girl replied , That you , to make her suffer , thus decide Yes , said the spark , if on her fall the lot , Then you 'll , at least for present , be forgot.
NO , cried person_7 , ne'er I 'll have it said , person_9 sacrifice I saw a maiden led ; I 'll suffer rather all that you expect , If you will spare my friend as I direct.
'Twas all in vain , the lots were drawn at last , person_6 on the princess was the burthen cast ; The other was permitted to retire , person_6 each was sworn that nothing should transpire : person_4 our gallant would sooner have been hung , Than have upon such secrets held his tongue ; ` person_8 clear , no longer silent he remained , Than one to listen to his tale he 'd gained.
THIS change of favorites the princess grieved ; That person_1 trifled with her she perceived ; person_10 much regret she saw her blooming charms , The Helen of too many Paris ' arms.
ONE day it happened , as our beauteous belle Was sleeping in a wood beside a dell , By chance there passed , quite near , a wand ` ring knight , Like those the ladies followed with delight , When they on palfreys rode in days of old , person_6 purity were always thought to hold.
THIS knight , who copied those of famed romance , Sir Roger , and the rest , in complisance , person_2 sooner saw the princess thus asleep , Than instantly he wished a kiss to reap.
While thinking , whether from the neck or lip , ` Twere best the tempting balm of bliss to sip , He suddenly began to recollect The laws of chivalry he should respect.
Although the thought retained , his fervent prayer person_9 was , that while the nymph was there , Her fascinating charms he might enjoy ; Sure love 's soft senses were ne'er designed to cloy ! THE princess woke , and great surprise expressed ; Oh ! charming fair , said he , be not distressed ; person_2 savage of the woods nor giant 's nigh , A wand ` ring knight alone you now descry , Delighted thus to meet a beauteous belle Such charms divine , what angel can excel ! THIS compliment was followed by his sighs , person_6 frank confession , both from tongue and eyes ; Our lover far in little time could go ; person_11 length , he offered on her to bestow , His hand and heart , and ev ` ry thing beside , Which custom sanctions when we seek a bride.
WITH courtesy his offer was received , person_6 she related what her bosom grieved ; Detailed her hist ` ry , but with care concealed The six gallants , as wrong to be revealed.
The knight , in what he wished , indulgence got ; person_6 , while the princess much deplored her lot , The youth proposed person_7 he should bring , person_9 , or Alexandria 's king.
TO person_3 ? replied the princess fair , person_2 , no -- I now indeed would fain repair , -LRB- Could I my wishes have -RRB- , to Zarus ' court , My native country : -- thither give support.
IF person_1 grant me life , rejoined the knight , You there shall go , and I 'll assist your flight ; person_9 have redress , upon yourself depends , As well as to requite the best of friends ; person_4 should I perish in the bold design , Submit you must , as wills the pow ` rs divine.
I 'll freely say , howe'er , that I regard , My services enough to claim reward.
ALACIEL readily to this agreed ; person_6 favors fondly promised to concede ; T ` ensure , indeed , his guarding her throughout , They were to be conferred upon the route , From time to time as onward they should go , person_2t all at once , but daily some to flow.
THINGS thus arranged , the fair behind the knight Got up at once , and with him took to flight.
Our cavalier his servants sought to find , That , when he crossed the wood , he left behind ; person_10 these a nephew and his tutor rode ; The belle a palfrey took , as more the mode , person_4 , by her walked attentively the spark , A tale he 'd now relate ; at times remark The passing scene ; then press his ardent flame ; person_6 thus amused our royal , beauteous dame.
THE treaty was most faithfully observed ; person_2 calculation wrong ; from naught they swerved.
person_11 length they reached the sea ; on ship-board got ; A quick and pleasing passage was their lot ; Delightfully serene , which joy increased ; person_9 land they came -LRB- from perils thought released ; -RRB- person_11 Joppa they debarked ; two days remained : person_6 when refreshed , the proper road they gained ; Their escort was the lover 's train alone ; On Asia 's shores to plunder bands are prone ; By these were met our spark and lovely fair ; New dangers they , alas ! were forced to share.
TO cede , at first , their numbers forced the train ; person_4 rallied by our knight they were again ; A desp ` rate push he made ; repulsed their force ; person_6 by his valor stopt , at length , their course ; person_12 which attack a mortal wound he got , person_4 was not left for dead upon the spot.
BEFORE his death he full instructions gave , person_9 grant the belle whatever she might crave ; He ordered too , his nephew should convey , person_7 to her home without delay , Bequeathing him whatever he possessed , person_6 -- what the princess owed among the rest.
AT length , from dread alarms and tears released , The pair fulfilled the will of our deceased ; Discharged each favor was , of which the last Was canceled just as they the frontiers passed.
THE nephew here his precious charge resigned , For fear the king should be displeased to find , His daughter guarded by a youthful swain : -- The tutor only with her could remain.
NO words of mine , no language can express The monarch 's joy his child to re-possess ; person_6 , since the difficulty I perceive , I 'll imitate old Sol 's retreat at eve , Who falls with such rapidity of view , He seems to plunge , dame Thetis to pursue.
THE tutor liked his own details to hear , person_6 entertaining made his tales appear : The num ` rous perils that the fair had fled , Who laughed aside , no doubt , at what he said.
I SHOULD observe , the aged tutor cried , The princess , while for liberty she sighed , person_6 quite alone remained -LRB- by person_5 left , -RRB- That she might be of idleness bereft , Resolved most fervently a god to serve , From whom she scarcely since would ever swerve , A god much worshipped ` mong the people there , person_10 num ` rous temples which his honors share , Denominated cabinets and bow ` rs , person_12 which , from high respect to heav ` nly pow ` rs , They represent the image of a bird , A pleasing sight , though -LRB- what appears absurd -RRB- ` person_8 bare of plumage , save about the wings ; person_9 this each youthful bosom incense brings , While other gods , as I 've been often told , They scarcely notice , till they 're growing old.
DID you but know the virtuous steps she trod , While thus devoted to the little god , You 'd thank a hundred times the pow ` rs above , That gave you such a child to bless your love.
person_4 many other customs there abound : -- The FAIR with perfect liberty are found : Can go and come , whene'er the humor fits ; person_2 eunuch -LRB- shadow like -RRB- that never quits ; person_4 watches ev ` ry movement : -- always feared ; person_2 men , but who 've upon the chin a beard : Your daughter from the first , their manners took : So easy is her ev ` ry act and look , person_6 truly to her honor I may say , She 's all-accommodating ev ` ry way.
THE king delighted seemed at what he heard ; person_4 since her journey could not be deferred , The princess , with a num ` rous escort , tried Again o ` er seas t ` wards Garba 's shores to glide , person_6 , there arrived , was cordially received By person_3 , who loved , she soon believed , person_9 fond excess ; and , all her suite to aid , A handsome gift to ev ` ry one was made.
THE king with noble feasts the court regaled , person_11 which person_7 pleasantly detailed just what she liked , or true or false , 'twas clear ; The prince and courtiers were disposed to hear.
AT night the queen retired to soft repose , From whence next morn with honor she arose ; The king was found much pleasure to express ; person_7 asked no more , you well may guess.
BY this we learn , that husbands who aver Their wond ` rous penetration often err ; person_6 while they fancy things so very plain , They 've been preceded by a fav ` rite swain.
The safest rule 's to be upon your guard ; Fear ev ` ry guile ; yet hope the full reward.
SWEET , charming FAIR , your characters revere ; The person_3 's a bird not common here.
person_10 us Love 's fascination is so soon Succeeded by the licensed honey moon , There 's scarcely opportunity to fool , Though oft the husband proves an easy tool.
YOUR friendships may be very chaste and pure , person_4 strangely person_1 's lessons will allure.
Defeat his wiles ; resist his tempting charms E ` en from suspicion suffer not alarms.
Do n't laugh at my advice ; ` twere like the boys , Who better might amuse themselves with toys.
IF any one , howe'er unable seem , person_9 make resistance ` gainst the flame supreme Turn ALL to jest ; though right to keep the crown Yet lost , ` there wrong , yourself to hang or drown"
`` That was a remarkably fine dinner yesterday ,"
observed an old person_1 of the female sex to another who had not been at the festive gathering.
`` I sat number twenty-one from the old mouse king , so that I was not badly placed.
Should you like to hear the order of the banquet ? The courses were very well arranged -- mouldy bread , bacon-rind , tallow candle , and sausage -- and then the same dishes over again from the beginning : it was just as good as having two banquets in succession.
There was as much joviality and agreeable jesting as in the family circle.
Nothing was left but the pegs at the ends of the sausages.
And the discourse turned upon these ; and at last the expression , ` Soup on sausage-rinds , ' or , as they have the proverb in the neighbouring country , ` Soup on a sausage-peg , ' was mentioned.
Every one had heard the proverb , but no one had ever tasted the sausage-peg soup , much less prepared it.
A capital toast was drunk to the inventor of the soup , and it was said he deserved to be a relieving officer.
Was not that witty ? And the old mouse king stood up , and promised that the young female mouse who could best prepare that soup should be his queen ; and a year was allowed for the trial"
`` That was not at all bad ,"
said the other person_1 ; `` but how does one prepare this soup ?"
`` Ah , how is it prepared ? That is just what all the young female mice , and the old ones too , are asking.
They would all very much like to be queen ; but they do n't want to take the trouble to go out into the world to learn how to prepare the soup , and that they would certainly have to do.
But every one has not the gift of leaving the family circle and the chimney corner.
In foreign parts one ca n't get cheese-rinds and bacon every day.
No , one must bear hunger , and perhaps be eaten up alive by a cat"
Such were probably the considerations by which the majority were deterred from going out into the wide world and gaining information.
Only four mice announced themselves ready to depart.
They were young and brisk , but poor.
Each of them wished to proceed to one of the four quarters of the globe , and then it would become manifest which of them was favored by fortune.
Every one took a sausage-peg , so as to keep in mind the object of the journey.
The stiff sausage-peg was to be to them as a pilgrim 's staff.
It was at the beginning of May that they set out , and they did not return till the May of the following year ; and then only three of them appeared.
The fourth did not report herself , nor was there any intelligence of her , though the day of trial was close at hand.
`` Yes , there 's always some drawback in even the pleasantest affair ,"
said the person_1.
And then he gave orders that all mice within a circuit of many miles should be invited.
They were to assemble in the kitchen , where the three traveled mice would stand up in a row , while a sausage-peg , shrouded in crape , was set up as a memento of the fourth , who was missing.
No one was to proclaim his opinion till the mouse king had settled what was to be said.
And now let us hear.
_ What the first little person_1 had seen and learned in her travels.
_ `` When I went out into the wide world ,"
said the little person_1 , `` I thought , as many think at my age , that I had already learned everything ; but that was not the case.
Years must pass before one gets so far.
I went to sea at once.
I went in a ship that steered towards the north.
They had told me that the ship 's cook must know how to manage things at sea ; but it is easy enough to manage things when one has plenty of sides of bacon , and whole tubs of salt pork , and mouldy flour.
One has delicate living on board ; but one does not learn to prepare soup on a sausage-peg.
We sailed along for many days and nights ; the ship rocked fearfully , and we did not get off without a wetting.
When we at last reached the port to which we were bound , I left the ship ; and it was high up in the far north.
`` It is a wonderful thing , to go out of one 's own corner at home , and sail in a ship , where one has a sort of corner too , and then suddenly to find oneself hundreds of miles away in a strange land.
I saw great pathless forests of pine and birch , which smelt so strong that I sneezed , and thought of sausage.
There were great lakes there too.
When I came close to them the waters were quite clear , but from a distance they looked black as ink.
Great swans floated upon them : I thought at first they were spots of foam , they lay so still ; but then I saw them walk and fly , and I recognized them.
They belong to the goose family -- one can see that by their walk ; for no one can deny his parentage.
I kept with my own kind.
I associated with the forest and field mice , who , by the way , know very little , especially as regards cookery , though this was the very subject that had brought me abroad.
The thought that soup might be boiled on a sausage-peg was such a startling statement to them , that it flew at once from mouth to mouth through the whole forest.
They declared the problem could never be solved ; and little did I think that there , in the very first night , I should be initiated into the method of its preparation.
It was in the height of summer , and that , the mice said , was the reason why the wood smelt so strongly , and why the herbs were so fragrant , and the lakes so transparent and yet so dark , with their white swimming swans.
`` On the margin of the wood , among three or four houses , a pole as tall as the mainmast of a ship had been erected , and from its summit hung wreaths and fluttering ribbons : this was called a maypole.
Men and maids danced round the tree , and sang as loudly as they could , to the violin of the fiddler.
There were merry doings at sundown and in the moonlight , but I took no part in them -- what has a little mouse to do with a May dance ? I sat in the soft moss and held my sausage-peg fast.
The moon threw its beams especially upon one spot , where a tree stood , covered with moss so exceedingly fine , I may almost venture to say it was as fine as the skin of the mouse king ; but it was of a green color , and that is a great relief to the eye.
`` All at once , the most charming little people came marching forth.
They were only tall enough to reach to my knee.
They looked like men , but were better proportioned : they called themselves elves , and had delicate clothes on , of flower leaves trimmed with the wings of flies and gnats , which had a very good appearance.
Directly they appeared , they seemed to be seeking for something -- I know not what ; but at last some of them came towards me , and the chief pointed to my sausage-peg , and said , ` That is just such a one as we want -- it is pointed -- it is capital ! ' and the longer he looked at my pilgrim 's staff the more delighted he became"
` I will lend it , ' I said , ` but not to keep.
'"
` Not to keep ! ' they all repeated ; and they seized the sausage-peg , which I gave up to them , and danced away to the spot where the fine moss grew ; and here they set up the peg in the midst of the green.
They wanted to have a maypole of their own , and the one they now had seemed cut out for them ; and they decorated it so that it was beautiful to behold.
`` First , little spiders spun it round with gold thread , and hung it all over with fluttering veils and flags , so finely woven , bleached so snowy white in the moonshine , that they dazzled my eyes.
They took colors from the butterfly 's wing , and strewed these over the white linen , and flowers and diamonds gleamed upon it , so that I did not know my sausage-peg again : there is not in all the world such a maypole as they had made of it.
And now came the real great party of elves.
They were quite without clothes , and looked as genteel as possible ; and they invited me to be present at the feast ; but I was to keep at a certain distance , for I was too large for them.
`` And now began such music ! It sounded like thousands of glass bells , so full , so rich , that I thought the swans were singing.
I fancied also that I heard the voice of the cuckoo and the blackbird , and at last the whole forest seemed to join in.
I heard children 's voices , the sound of bells , and the song of birds ; the most glorious melodies -- and all came from the elves ' maypole , namely , my sausage-peg.
I should never have believed that so much could come out of it ; but that depends very much upon the hands into which it falls.
I was quite touched.
I wept , as a little mouse may weep , with pure pleasure.
`` The night was far too short ; but it is not longer up yonder at that season.
In the morning dawn the breeze began to blow , the mirror of the forest lake was covered with ripples , and all the delicate veils and flags fluttered away in the air.
The waving garlands of spider 's web , the hanging bridges and balustrades , and whatever else they are called , flew away as if they were nothing at all.
Six elves brought me back my sausage-peg , and asked me at the same time if I had any wish that they could gratify ; so I asked them if they could tell me how soup was made on a sausage-peg"
` How _ we _ do it ? ' asked the chief of the elves , with a smile.
` Why , you have just seen it.
I fancy you hardly knew your sausage-peg again ? '"
` You only mean that as a joke ,"
I replied.
And then I told them in so many words , why I had undertaken a journey , and what great hopes were founded on the operation at home.
` What advantage , ' I asked , ` can accrue to our mouse king , and to our whole powerful state , from the fact of my having witnessed all this festivity ? I can not shake it out of the sausage-peg , and say , `` Look , here is the peg , now the soup will come"
That would be a dish that could only be put on the table when the guests had dined.
' -LRB- Illustration : THE ELVES APPLY FOR THE LOAN OF THE SAUSAGE-PEG.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Then the elf dipped his little finger into the cup of a blue violet , and said to me :"
` See here ! I will anoint your pilgrim 's staff ; and when you go back to your country , and come to the castle of the mouse king , you have but to touch him with the staff , and violets will spring forth and cover its whole surface , even in the coldest winter-time.
And so I think I 've given you something to carry home , and a little more than something ! '"
But before the little person_1 said what this `` something more"
was , she stretched her staff out towards the king , and in very truth the most beautiful bunch of violets burst forth ; and the scent was so powerful , that the mouse king incontinently ordered the mice who stood nearest the chimney to thrust their tails into the fire and create a smell of burning , for the odour of the violets was not to be borne , and was not of the kind he liked.
`` But what was the ` something more , ' of which you spoke ?"
asked the person_1.
`` Why ,"
the little person_1 answered , `` I think it is what they call effect !"
and herewith she turned the staff round , and lo ! there was not a single flower to be seen upon it ; she only held the naked skewer , and lifted this up , as a musical conductor lifts his _ baton _"
` Violets , ' the elf said to me , ` are for sight , and smell , and touch.
Therefore it yet remains to provide for hearing and taste ! '"
And now the little person_1 began to beat time ; and music was heard , not such as sounded in the forest among the elves , but such as is heard in the kitchen.
There was a bubbling sound of boiling and roasting ; and all at once it seemed as if the sound were rushing through every chimney , and pots and kettles were boiling over.
The fire-shovel hammered upon the brass kettle , and then , on a sudden , all was quiet again.
They heard the quiet subdued song of the tea-kettle , and it was wonderful to hear -- they could not quite tell if the kettle were beginning to sing or leaving off ; and the little pot simmered , and the big pot simmered , and neither cared for the other : there seemed to be no reason at all in the pots.
And the little person_1 flourished her _ baton _ more and more wildly ; the pots foamed , threw up large bubbles , boiled over , and the wind roared and whistled through the chimney.
Oh ! it became so terrible , that the little person_1 lost her stick at last.
`` That was a heavy soup !"
said the person_1.
`` Shall we not soon hear about the preparation ?"
`` That was all ,"
said the little person_1 , with a bow.
`` That is all ! Then we should be glad to hear what the next has to relate ,"
said the person_1.
_ What the second little person_1 had to tell.
_ `` I was born in the palace library ,"
said the second person_1.
`` I and several members of our family never knew the happiness of getting into the dining-room , much less into the store-room ; on my journey , and here to-day , are the only times I have seen a kitchen.
We have indeed often been compelled to suffer hunger in the library , but we got a good deal of knowledge.
The rumor penetrated even to us , of the royal prize offered to those who could cook soup upon a sausage-peg ; and it was my old grandmother who thereupon ferreted out a manuscript , which she certainly could not read , but which she had heard read out , and in which it was written : ` Those who are poets can boil soup upon a sausage-peg.
' She asked me if I were a poet.
I felt quite innocent on the subject , and then she told me I must go out , and manage to become one.
I again asked what was requisite in that particular , for it was as difficult for me to find that out , as to prepare the soup ; but grandmother had heard a good deal of reading , and she said that three things were especially necessary : ` Understanding , imagination , feeling -- if you can manage to obtain these three , you are a poet , and the sausage-wide peg affair will be quite easy to you.
' `` And I went forth , and marched towards the west , away into the world , to become a poet.
`` Understanding is the most important thing in every affair.
I knew that , for the two other things are not held in half such respect , and consequently I went out first to seek understanding.
Yes , where does he dwell ? ` Go to the ant and be wise , ' said the great person_0 of the Jews ; I knew that from my library experience ; and I never stopped till I came to the first great ant-hill , and there I placed myself on the watch , to become wise.
`` The ants are a respectable people.
They are understanding itself.
Everything with them is like a well-worked sum , that comes right.
To work and to lay eggs , they say , is to live while you live , and to provide for posterity ; and accordingly that is what they do.
They were divided into the clean and the dirty ants.
The rank of each is indicated by a number , and the ant queen is number ONE ; and her view is the only correct one , she is the receptacle of all wisdom ; and that was important for me to know.
She spoke so much , and it was all so clever , that it sounded to me like nonsense.
She declared her ant-hill was the loftiest thing in the world ; though close by it grew a tree , which was certainly loftier , much loftier , that could not be denied , and therefore it was never mentioned.
One evening an ant had lost herself upon the tree : she had crept up the stem -- not up to the crown , but higher than any ant had climbed until then ; and when she turned , and came back home , she talked of something far higher than the ant-hill that she had found in her travels ; but the other ants considered that an insult to the whole community , and consequently she was condemned to wear a muzzle , and to continual solitary confinement.
But a short time afterwards another ant got on the tree , and made the same journey and the same discovery ; and this one spoke with emphasis , and indistinctly , they said ; and as , moreover , she was one of the pure ants and very much respected , they believed her ; and when she died they erected an egg-shell as a memorial of her , for they had a great respect for the sciences.
I saw ,"
continued the little person_1 , `` that the ants were always running to and fro with their eggs on their backs.
One of them once dropped her egg ; she exerted herself greatly to pick it up again , but she could not succeed.
Then two others came up , and helped her with all their might , insomuch that they nearly dropped their own eggs over it ; but then they certainly at once relaxed their exertions , for each should think of himself first -- the ant queen had declared that by so doing they exhibited at once heart and understanding"
` These two qualities , ' she said , ` place us ants on the highest step among all reasoning beings.
Understanding is seen among us all in predominant measure , and I have the greatest share of understanding.
' And so saying , she raised herself on her hind-legs , so that she was easily to be recognized.
I could not be mistaken , and I ate her up.
We were to go to the ants to learn wisdom -- and I had got the queen ! `` I now proceeded nearer to the before-mentioned lofty tree.
It was an oak , and had a great trunk , and a far-spreading top , and was very old.
I knew that a living being dwelt here , a Dryad as it is called , who is born with the tree , and dies with it.
I had heard about this in the library ; and now I saw an oak tree , and an oak girl.
She uttered a piercing cry when she saw me so near.
Like all females , she was very much afraid of mice ; and she had more ground for fear than others , for I might have gnawed through the stem of the tree on which her life depended.
I accosted the maiden in a friendly and honest way , and bade her take courage.
And she took me up in her delicate hand ; and when I had told her my reason for coming out into the wide world , she promised me that perhaps on that very evening I should have one of the two treasures of which I was still in quest.
She told me that Phantasus , the genius of imagination , was her very good friend , that he was beautiful as the god of love , and that he rested many an hour under the leafy boughs of the tree , which then rustled more strongly than ever over the pair of them.
He called her his dryad , she said , and the tree his tree , for the grand gnarled oak was just to his taste , with its root burrowing so deep in the earth , and the stem and crown rising so high out in the fresh air , and knowing the beating snow , and the sharp wind , and the warm sunshine as they deserve to be known.
` Yes , ' the Dryad continued , ` the birds sing aloft there in the branches , and tell each other of strange countries they have visited ; and on the only dead bough the stork has built a nest which is highly ornamental , and moreover , one gets to hear something of the land of the pyramids.
All that is very pleasing to Phantasus ; but it is not enough for him : I myself must talk to him , and tell him of life in the woods , and must revert to my childhood , when I was little , and the tree such a delicate thing that a stinging-nettle overshadowed it -- and I have to tell everything , till now that the tree is great and strong.
Sit you down under the green thyme , and pay attention ; and when Phantasus comes , I shall find an opportunity to pinch his wings , and to pull out a little feather.
Take the pen -- no better is given to any poet -- and it will be enough for you ! ' `` And when Phantasus came the feather was plucked , and I seized it ,"
said the little person_1.
`` I put it in water , and held it there till it grew soft.
It was very hard to digest , but I nibbled it up at last.
It is very easy to gnaw oneself into being a poet , though there are many things one must do.
Now I had these two things , imagination and understanding , and through these I knew that the third was to be found in the library ; for a great man has said and written that there are romances , whose sole and single use is that they relieve people of their superfluous tears , and that they are , in fact , a sort of sponges sucking up human emotion.
I remembered a few of these old books which had always looked especially palatable , and were much thumbed and very greasy , having evidently absorbed a great deal of feeling into themselves.
`` I betook myself back to the library , and , so to speak , devoured a whole novel -- that is , the essence of it , the interior part , for I left the crust or binding.
When I had digested this , and a second one in addition , I felt a stirring within me , and I ate a bit of a third romance , and now I was a poet.
I said so to myself , and told the others also.
I had headache , and chestache , and I ca n't tell what aches besides.
I began thinking what kind of stories could be made to refer to a sausage-peg ; and many pegs , and sticks , and staves , and splinters came into my mind -- the ant queen must have had a particularly fine understanding.
I remembered the man who took a white stick in his mouth , by which means he could render himself and the stick invisible ; I thought of stick hobby-horses , of ` stock rhymes , ' of ` breaking the staff ' over an offender , and Heaven knows of how many phrases more concerning sticks , stocks , staves , and pegs.
All my thoughts ran upon sticks , staves , and pegs ; and when one is a poet -LRB- and I am a poet , for I have worked most terribly hard to become one -RRB- a person can make poetry on these subjects.
I shall therefore be able to wait upon you every day with a poem or a history -- and that 's the soup I have to offer"
`` Let us hear what the third has to say ,"
was now the person_1 's command.
`` Peep ! peep !"
cried a small voice at the kitchen-door , and a little mouse -- it was the fourth of the mice who had contended for the prize , the one whom they looked upon as dead -- shot in like an arrow.
She toppled the sausage-peg with the crape covering over in a moment.
She had been running day and night , and had traveled on the railway , in the goods train , having watched her opportunity , and yet she had almost come too late.
She pressed forward , looking very much rumpled , and she had lost her sausage-peg , but not her voice , for she at once took up the word , as if they had been waiting only for her , and wanted to hear none but her , and as if everything else in the world were of no consequence.
She spoke at once , and spoke fully : she had appeared so suddenly , that no one found time to object to her speech or to her , while she was speaking.
And let us hear what she said.
-LRB- Illustration : THE GAOLER 'S GRANDDAUGHTER TAKES PITY ON THE LITTLE MOUSE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa _ What the fourth person_1 , who spoke before the third had spoken , had to tell.
_ `` I betook myself immediately to the largest town ,"
she said ; `` the name has escaped me -- I have a bad memory for names.
From the railway I was carried , with some confiscated goods , to the council house , and when I arrived there I ran into the dwelling of the gaoler.
The gaoler was talking of his prisoners , and especially of one who had spoken unconsidered words.
These words had given rise to others , and these latter had been written down and recorded"
` The whole thing is soup on a sausage-peg , ' said the gaoler ; ` but the soup may cost him his neck.
' `` Now , this gave me an interest in the prisoner ,"
continued the person_1 , `` and I watched my opportunity and slipped into his prison -- for there 's a mouse-hole to be found behind every locked door.
The prisoner looked pale , and had a great beard , and bright sparkling eyes.
The lamp flickered and smoked , but the walls were so accustomed to that , that they grew none the blacker for it.
The prisoner scratched pictures and verses in white upon the black ground , but I did not read them.
I think he found it tedious , and I was a welcome guest.
He lured me with bread crumbs , with whistling , and with friendly words : he was glad to see me , and gradually I got to trust him , and we became good friends.
He let me run upon his hand , his arm , and into his sleeve ; he let me creep about in his beard , and called me his little friend.
I really got to love him , for these things are reciprocal.
I forgot my mission in the wide world , forgot my sausage-peg : that I had placed in a crack in the floor -- it 's lying there still.
I wished to stay where I was , for if I went away , the poor prisoner would have no one at all , and that 's having _ too _ little , in this world.
_ I _ stayed , but _ he _ did not stay.
He spoke to me very mournfully the last time , gave me twice as much bread and cheese as usual , and kissed his hand to me ; then he went away , and never came back.
I do n't know his history"
` Soup on a sausage-peg ! ' said the gaoler , to whom I now went ; but I should not have trusted him.
He took me in his hand , certainly , but he popped me into a cage , a treadmill.
That 's a horrible engine , in which you go round and round without getting any farther ; and people laugh at you into the bargain.
`` The gaoler 's granddaughter was a charming little thing , with a mass of curly hair that shone like gold , and such merry eyes , and such a smiling mouth !"
` You poor little mouse , ' she said , as she peeped into my ugly cage ; and she drew out the iron rod , and forth I jumped , to the window board , and from thence to the roof spout.
Free ! free ! I thought only of that , and not of the goal of my journey.
`` It was dark , and night was coming on.
I took up my quarters in an old tower , where dwelt a watchman and an owl.
That is a creature like a cat , who has the great failing that she eats mice.
But one may be mistaken , and so was I , for this was a very respectable , well-educated old owl : she knew more than the watchman , and as much as I.
The young owls were always making a racket ; but ` go and make soup on a sausage peg ' were the hardest words she could prevail on herself to utter , she was so fondly attached to her family.
Her conduct inspired me with so much confidence , that from the crack in which I was crouching I called out ` peep ! ' to her.
This confidence of mine pleased her hugely , and she assured me I should be under her protection , and that no creature should be allowed to do me wrong ; she would reserve me for herself , for the winter , when there would be short commons.
`` She was in every respect a clever woman , and explained to me how the watchman could only ` whoop ' with the horn that hung at his side , adding , ` He is terribly conceited about it , and imagines he 's an owl in the tower.
Wants to do great things , but is very small -- soup on a sausage-peg ! ' I begged the owl to give me the recipe for this soup , and then she explained the matter to me"
` Soup on a sausage-peg , ' she said , ` was only a human proverb , and was to be understood thus : Each thinks his own way the best , but the whole signifies nothing.
'"
` Nothing ! '"
I exclaimed.
`` I was quite struck.
Truth is not always agreeable , but truth is above everything ; and that 's what the old owl said.
I now thought about it , and readily perceived that if I brought what was _ above everything _ I brought something far beyond soup on a sausage-peg.
So I hastened away , that I might get home in time , and bring the highest and best , that is above everything -- namely , _ the truth _.
The mice are an enlightened people , and the king is above them all.
He is capable of making me queen , for the sake of truth"
`` Your truth is a falsehood ,"
said the person_1 who had not yet spoken.
`` I can prepare the soup , and I mean to prepare it"
_ How it was prepared.
_ `` I did not travel ,"
the third person_1 said.
`` I remained in my country -- that 's the right thing to do.
There 's no necessity for traveling ; one can get everything as good here.
I stayed at home.
I 've not learned what I know from supernatural beings , or gobbled it up , or held converse with owls.
I have what I know through my own reflections.
Will you make haste and put that kettle upon the fire ? So -- now water must be poured in -- quite full -- up to the brim ! -- So -- now more fuel -- make up the fire , that the water may boil -- it must boil over and over ! -- So -- I now throw the peg in.
Will the king now be pleased to dip his tail in the boiling water , and to stir it round with the said tail ? The longer the king stirs it , the more powerful will the soup become.
It costs nothing at all -- no further materials are necessary , only stir it round !"
`` Can not any one else do that ?"
asked the person_1.
`` No ;"
replied the mouse.
`` The power is contained only in the tail of the person_1"
And the water boiled and bubbled , and the person_1 stood close beside the kettle -- there was almost danger in it -- and he put forth his tail , as the mice do in the dairy , when they skim the cream from a pan of milk , afterwards licking their creamy tails ; but his tail only penetrated into the hot steam , and then he sprang hastily down from the hearth.
`` Of course -- certainly you are my queen ,"
he said.
`` We 'll adjourn the soup question till our golden wedding in fifty years ' time , so that the poor of my subjects , who will then be fed , may have something to which they can look forward with pleasure for a long time"
-LRB- Illustration : THE MOUSE KING UNDERSTANDS HOW THE SOUP IS MADE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa And soon the wedding was held.
But many of the mice said , as they were returning home , that it could not be really called soup on a sausage-peg , but rather soup on a mouse 's tail.
They said that some of the stories had been very cleverly told ; but the whole thing might have been different"
_ I _ should have told it so -- and so -- and so !"
Thus said the critics , who are always wise -- after the fact.
And this story went out into the wide world , everywhere ; and opinions varied concerning it , but the story remained as it was.
And that 's the best in great things and in small , so also with regard to soup on a sausage-peg -- not to expect any thanks for it"
Far away in the land of India , far away towards the East , at the end of the world , stood the person_3 of the person_2 , a noble tree , such as we have never seen , and shall probably never see.
The crown stretched out several miles around : it was really an entire wood ; each of its smallest branches formed , in its turn , a whole tree.
Palms , beech trees , pines , plane trees , and various other kinds grew here , which are found scattered in all other parts of the world : they shot out like small branches from the great boughs , and these large boughs with their windings and knots formed , as it were , valleys and hills , clothed with velvety green , and covered with flowers.
Everything was like a wide , blooming meadow , or like the most charming garden.
Here the birds from all quarters of the world assembled together -- birds from the primeval forests of America , the rose gardens of Damascus , from the deserts of Africa , in which the elephant and the lion boast of being the only rulers.
The Polar birds came flying hither , and of course the stork and the swallow were not absent ; but the birds were not the only living beings : the stag , the squirrel , the antelope , and a hundred other beautiful and light-footed animals were here at home.
The crown of the tree was a widespread fragrant garden , and in the midst of it , where the great boughs raised themselves into a green hill , there stood a castle of crystal , with a view towards every quarter of heaven.
Each tower was reared in the form of a lily.
Through the stem one could ascend , for within it was a winding-stair ; one could step out upon the leaves as upon balconies ; and up in the calyx of the flower itself was the most beautiful , sparkling round hall , above which no other roof rose but the blue firmament with sun and stars.
Just as much splendor , though in another way , appeared below , in the wide halls of the castle.
Here , on the walls , the whole world around was reflected.
One saw everything that was done , so that there was no necessity of reading any papers , and indeed papers were not obtainable there.
Everything was to be seen in living pictures , if one only wished to see it ; for too much is still too much even for the wisest man ; and this man dwelt here.
His name is very difficult -- you will not be able to pronounce it ; therefore it may remain unmentioned.
He knew everything that a man on earth can know , or can get to know ; every invention which had already been or which was yet to be made was known to him ; but nothing more , for everything in the world has its limits.
The wise King Solomon was only half as wise as he , and yet he was very wise , and governed the powers of nature , and held sway over potent spirits : yes , Death itself was obliged to give him every morning a list of those who were to die during the day.
But King Solomon himself was obliged to die too ; and this thought it was which often in the deepest manner employed the inquirer , the mighty lord in the castle on the person_3 of the person_2.
He also , however high he might tower above men in wisdom , must die one day.
He knew that , and his children also must fade away like the leaves of the forest , and become dust.
He saw the human race fade away like the leaves on the tree ; saw new men come to fill their places ; but the leaves that fell off never sprouted forth again -- they fell to dust , or were transformed into other parts of plants.
`` What happens to man ?"
the wise man asked himself , `` when the angel of death touches him ? What may death be ? The body is dissolved -- and the soul.
Yes , what is the soul ? whither doth it go ? To eternal life , says the comforting voice of religion ; but what is the transition ? where does one live , and how ? Above , in heaven , says the pious man , thither we go.
Thither ?"
repeated the wise man , and fixed his eyes upon the moon and the stars ; `` up yonder ?"
But he saw , from the earthly ball , that above and below were alike changing their position , according as one stood here or there on the rolling globe ; and even if he mounted as high as the loftiest mountains of earth rear their heads , to the air which we below call clear and transparent -- the pure heaven -- a black darkness spread abroad like a cloth , and the sun had a coppery glow , and sent forth no rays , and our earth lay wrapped in an orange-coloured mist.
How narrow were the limits of the corporeal eye , and how little the eye of the soul could see ! -- how little did even the wisest know of that which is the most important to us all ! In the most secret chamber of the castle lay the greatest treasure of the earth : the person_1 of person_4.
Leaf for leaf , the wise man read it through : every man may read in this book , but only by fragments.
To many an eye the characters seem to tremble , so that the words can not be put together ; on certain pages the writing often seems so pale , so blurred , that only a blank leaf appears.
The wiser a man becomes , the more he will read ; and the wisest read most.
He knew how to unite the sunlight and the moonlight with the light of reason and of hidden powers ; and through this stronger light many things came clearly before him from the page.
But in the division of the book whose title is `` Life after Death"
not even one point was to be distinctly seen.
That pained him.
Should he not be able here upon earth to obtain a light by which everything should become clear to him that stood written in the person_1 of person_4 ? -LRB- Illustration : THE BOOK OF TRUTH.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Like the wise King Solomon , he understood the language of the animals , and could interpret their talk and their songs.
But that made him none the wiser.
He found out the forces of plants and metals -- the forces to be used for the cure of diseases , for delaying death -- but none that could destroy death.
In all created things that were within his reach he sought the light that should shine upon the certainty of an eternal life ; but he found it not.
The person_1 of person_4 lay before him with leaves that appeared blank.
Christianity showed itself to him in the Bible with words of promise of an eternal life ; but he wanted to read it in _ his _ book ; but here he saw nothing written on the subject.
He had five children -- four sons , educated as well as the children of the wisest father could be , and a daughter , fair , mild , and clever , but blind ; yet this appeared no deprivation to her -- her father and brothers were outward eyes to her , and the vividness of her feelings saw for her.
Never had the sons gone farther from the castle than the branches of the tree extended , nor had the sister strayed from home.
They were happy children in the land of childhood -- in the beautiful fragrant person_3 of the person_2.
Like all children , they were very glad when any history was related to them ; and the father told them many things that other children would not have understood ; but these were just as clever as most grown-up people are among us.
He explained to them what they saw in the pictures of life on the castle walls -- the doings of men and the march of events in all the lands of the earth ; and often the sons expressed the wish that they could be present at all the great deeds and take part in them ; and their father then told them that out in the world it was difficult and toilsome -- that the world was not quite what it appeared to them as they looked forth upon it from their beauteous home.
He spoke to them of the true , the beautiful , and the good , and told them that these three held together in the world , and that under the pressure they had to endure they became hardened into a precious stone , clearer than the water of the diamond -- a jewel whose splendor had value with person_0 , whose brightness outshone everything , and which was the so-called `` Stone of the Wise"
He told them how men could attain by investigation to the knowledge of the existence of person_0 , and that through men themselves one could attain to the certainty that such a jewel as the `` Stone of the Wise"
existed.
This narration would have exceeded the perception of other children , but these children understood it , and at length other children , too , will learn to comprehend its meaning.
They questioned their father concerning the true , the beautiful , and the good ; and he explained it to them , told them many things , and told them also that person_0 , when He made man out of the dust of the earth , gave five kisses to His work -- fiery kisses , heart kisses -- which we now call the five senses.
Through these the true , the beautiful , and the good is seen , perceived , and understood ; through these it is valued , protected , and furthered.
Five senses have been given corporeally and mentally , inwardly and outwardly , to body and soul.
The children reflected deeply upon these things ; they meditated upon them by day and by night.
Then the eldest of the brothers dreamt a splendid dream.
Strangely enough , the second brother had the same dream , and the third , and the fourth brother likewise ; all of them dreamt exactly the same thing -- namely , that each went out into the world and found the `` Stone of the Wise ,"
which gleamed like a beaming light on his forehead when , in the morning dawn , he rode back on his swift horse over the velvety green meadows of his home into the castle of his father ; and the jewel threw such a heavenly light and radiance upon the leaves of the book , that everything was illuminated that stood written concerning the life beyond the grave.
But the sister dreamt nothing about going out into the wide world.
It never entered her mind.
Her world was her father 's house.
`` I shall ride forth into the wide world ,"
said the eldest brother.
`` I must try what life is like there , and go to and fro among men.
I will practice only the good and the true ; with these I will protect the beautiful.
Much shall change for the better when I am there"
Now his thoughts were bold and great , as our thoughts generally are at home , before we have gone forth into the world and have encountered wind and rain , and thorns and thistles.
In him and in all his brothers the five senses were highly developed , inwardly and outwardly ; but each of them had _ one _ sense which in keenness and development surpassed the other four.
In the case of the eldest this pre-eminent sense was Sight.
This was to do him especial service.
He said he had eyes for all time , eyes for all nations , eyes that could look into the depths of the earth , where the treasures lie hidden , and deep into the hearts of men , as though nothing but a pane of glass were placed before them : he could read more than we can see on the cheek that blushes or grows pale , in the eye that droops or smiles.
Stags and antelopes escorted him to the boundary of his home towards the west , and there the wild swans received him and flew north-west.
He followed them.
And now he had gone far out into the world -- far from the land of his father , that extended eastward to the end of the earth.
But how he opened his eyes in astonishment ! Many things were here to be seen ; and many things appear very different when a man beholds them with his own eyes , or when he merely sees them in a picture , as the son had done in his father 's house , however faithful the picture way be.
At the outset he nearly lost his eyes in astonishment at all the rubbish and all the masquerading stuff put forward to represent the beautiful ; but he did not lose them , and soon found full employment for them.
He wished to go thoroughly and honestly to work in the understanding of the beautiful , the true , and the good.
But how were these represented in the world ? He saw that often the garland that belonged to the beautiful was given to the hideous ; that the good was often passed by without notice , while mediocrity was applauded when it should have been hissed off.
People looked to the dress , and not to the wearer ; asked for a name , and not for desert ; and went more by reputation than by service.
It was the same thing everywhere.
`` I see I must attack these things vigorously ,"
he said ; and attacked them with vigor accordingly.
But while he was looking for the truth , came the Evil One , the father of lies.
Gladly would the fiend have plucked out the eyes of this Seer ; but that would have been too direct ; the devil works in a more cunning way.
He let him see and seek the true and the good ; but while the young man was contemplating them , the evil spirit blew one mote after another into each of his eyes ; and such a proceeding would be hurtful even to the best sight.
Then the fiend blew upon the motes , so that they became beams ; and the eyes were destroyed , and the Seer stood like a blind man in the wide world , and had no faith in it : he lost his good opinion of it and himself ; and when a man gives up the world and himself , all is over with him.
`` Over !"
said the wild swan , who flew across the sea towards the east.
`` Over !"
twittered the swallows , who likewise flew eastward , towards the person_3 of the person_2.
That was no good news that they carried to the young man 's home.
`` I fancy the _ Seer _ must have fared badly ,"
said the second brother ; `` but the _ Hearer _ may have better fortune"
For this one possessed the sense of hearing in an eminent degree : he could hear the grass grow , so quick was he to hear.
He took a hearty leave of all at home , and rode away , provided with good abilities and good intentions.
The swallows escorted him , and he followed the swans ; and he stood far from his home in the wide world.
But he experienced the fact that one may have too much of a good thing.
His hearing was _ too _ fine.
He not only heard the grass grow , but could hear every man 's heart beat , in sorrow and in joy.
The whole world was to him like a great clockmaker 's workshop , wherein all the clocks were going `` tick , tick !"
and all the turret clocks striking `` ding dong !"
It was unbearable.
For a long time his ears held out , but at last all the noise and screaming became too much , for one man.
There came blackguard boys of sixty years old -- for years alone do n't make men -- and raised a tumult at which the hearer might certainly have laughed , but for the applause which followed , and which echoed through every house and street , and was audible even in the country high road.
Falsehood thrust itself forward , and played the master ; the bells on the fool 's cap jangled , and declared they were church bells ; and the noise became too bad for the _ Hearer _ , and he thrust his fingers into his ears ; but still he could hear false singing and bad sounds , gossip and idle words , scandal and slander , groaning and moaning without and within.
Heaven help us ! He thrust his fingers deeper and deeper into his ears , but at last the drums burst.
Now he could hear nothing at all of the good , the true , and the beautiful , for his hearing was to have been the bridge by which he crossed.
He became silent and suspicious , trusted no one at last , not even himself , and , no longer hoping to find and bring home the costly jewel , he gave it up , and gave himself up ; and that was the worst of all.
The birds who winged their flight towards the east brought tidings of this , till the news reached the castle in the person_3 of the person_2"
_ I _ will try now !"
said the third brother.
`` I have a sharp _ nose _ !"
Now that was not said in very good taste ; but it was his way , and one must take him as he was.
He had a happy temper , and was a poet , a real poet : he could sing many things that he could not say , and many things struck him far earlier than they occurred to others.
`` I can smell fire !"
he said ; and he attributed to the sense of smelling , which he possessed in a high degree , a great power in the region of the beautiful.
`` Every fragrant spot in the realm of the beautiful has its frequenters ,"
he said.
`` One man feels at home in the atmosphere of the tavern , among the flaring tallow candles , where the smell of spirits mingles with the fumes of bad tobacco.
Another prefers sitting among the overpowering scent of jessamine , or scenting himself with strong clove oil.
This man seeks out the fresh sea breeze , while that one climbs to the highest mountain top and looks down upon the busy little life beneath"
Thus he spake.
It seemed to him as if he had already been out in the world , as if he had already associated with men and known them.
But this experience arose from within himself : it was the poet within him , the gift of Heaven , and bestowed on him in his cradle.
He bade farewell to his paternal roof in the person_3 of the person_2 , and departed on foot through the pleasant scenery of home.
Arrived at its confines , he mounted on the back of an ostrich , which runs faster than a horse ; and afterwards , when he fell in with the wild swans , he swung himself on the strongest of them , for he loved change ; and away he flew over the sea to distant lands with great forests , deep lakes , mighty mountains , and proud cities ; and wherever he came it seemed as if sunshine traveled with him across the fields , for every flower , every bush , every tree exhaled a new fragrance , in the consciousness that a friend and protector was in the neighborhood , who understood them and knew their value.
The crippled rose bush reared up its twigs , unfolded its leaves , and bore the most beautiful roses ; every one could see it , and even the black damp wood-snail noticed its beauty.
`` I will give my seal to the flower ,"
said the Snail ; `` I have spit at it , and I can do no more for it"
`` Thus it always fares with the beautiful in this world !"
said the poet ; and he sang a song concerning it , sang it in his own way ; but nobody listened.
Then he gave the drummer twopence and a peacock 's feather , and set the song for the drum , and had it drummed in all the streets of the town ; and the people heard it , and said , `` That 's a well-constructed song"
Then the poet sang several songs of the beautiful , the true , and the good.
His songs were listened to in the tavern , where the tallow candles smoked , in the fresh meadow , in the forest , and on the high seas.
It appeared as if this brother was to have better fortune than the two others.
But the evil spirit was angry at this , and accordingly he set to work with incense powder and incense smoke , which he can prepare so artfully as to confuse an angel , and how much more therefore a poor poet ! The Evil One knows how to take that kind of people ! He surrounded the poet so completely with incense , that the man lost his head , and forgot his mission and his home , and at last himself -- and ended in smoke.
But when the little birds heard of this they mourned , and for three days they sang not one song.
The black wood-snail became blacker still , not for grief , but for envy.
`` They should have strewed incense for me ,"
she said , `` for it was I who gave him his idea of the most famous of his songs , the drum song of ` The Way of the World ; ' it was I who spat at the rose ! I can bring witness to the fact"
But no tidings of all this penetrated to the poet 's home in India , for all the birds were silent for three days ; and when the time of mourning was over , their grief had been so deep that they had forgotten for whom they wept.
That 's the usual way ! -LRB- Illustration : THE DEPARTURE OF THE THIRD BROTHER.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Now I shall have to go out into the world , to disappear like the rest ,"
said the fourth brother.
He had just as good a wit as the third , but he was no poet , though he could be witty.
Those two had filled the castle with cheerfulness , and now the last cheerfulness was going away.
Sight and hearing has always been looked upon as the two chief senses of men , and as the two that it is most desirable to sharpen ; the other senses are looked upon as of less consequence.
But that was not the opinion of this son , as he had especially cultivated his _ taste _ in every respect , and taste is very powerful.
It holds sway over what goes into the mouth , and also over what penetrates into the mind ; and consequently this brother tasted everything that was stored up in bottles and pots , saying that this was the rough work of his office.
Every man was to him a vessel in which something was seething , every country an enormous kitchen , a kitchen of the mind.
`` That was no delicacy ,"
he said , and he wanted to go out and try what was delicate.
`` Perhaps fortune may be more favourable to me than it was to my brothers ,"
he said.
`` I shall start on my travels.
But what conveyance shall I choose ? Are air balloons invented yet ?"
he asked his father , who knew of all inventions that had been made , or that were to be made.
But air balloons had not yet been invented , nor steam ships , nor railways.
`` Good : then I shall choose an air balloon ,"
he said ; `` my father knows how they are made and guided.
Nobody has invented them yet , and consequently the people will believe that it is an aerial phantom.
When I have used the balloon I will burn it , and for this purpose you must give me a few pieces of the invention that will be made next -- I mean chemical matches"
And he obtained what he wanted , and flew away.
The birds accompanied him farther than they had flown with the other brothers.
They were curious to know what would be the result of the flight , and more of them came sweeping up : they thought he was some new bird ; and he soon had a goodly following.
The air became black with birds , they came on like a cloud -- like the cloud of locusts over the land of Egypt.
Now he was out in the wide world.
The balloon descended over one of the greatest cities , and the aeronaut took up his station on the highest point , on the church steeple.
The balloon rose again , which it ought not to have done : where it went to is not known , but that was not a matter of consequence , for it was not yet invented.
Then he sat on the church steeple.
The birds no longer hovered around him , they had got tired of him , and he was tired of them.
All the chimneys in the town were smoking merrily.
`` Those are altars erected to thy honor !"
said the Wind , who wished to say something agreeable to him.
He sat boldly up there , and looked down upon the people in the street.
There was one stepping along , proud of his purse , another of the key he carried at his girdle , though he had nothing to unlock ; one proud of his moth-eaten coat , another of his wasted body.
`` Vanity ! I must hasten downward , dip my finger in the pot , and taste !"
he said.
`` But for awhile I will still sit here , for the wind blows so pleasantly against my back.
I 'll sit here so long as the wind blows.
I 'll enjoy a slight rest.
` It is good to sleep long in the morning , when one has much to do , ' says the lazy man.
I 'll stop here so long as this wind blows , for it pleases me"
And there he sat , but he was sitting upon the weathercock of the steeple , which kept turning round and round with him , so that he was under the false impression that the same wind still blew ; so he might stay up there a goodly while.
But in India , in the castle in the person_3 of the person_2 , it was solitary and still , since the brothers had gone away one after the other.
`` It goes not well with them ,"
said the father ; `` they will never bring the gleaming jewel home ; it is not made for me ; they are gone , they are dead !"
And he bent down over the person_1 of person_4 , and gazed at the page on which he should read of life after death ; but for him nothing was to be seen or learned upon it.
The blind daughter was his consolation and joy : she attached herself with sincere affection to him ; for the sake of his peace and joy she wished the costly jewel might be found and brought home.
With kindly longing she thought of her brothers.
Where were they ? Where did they live ? She wished sincerely that she might dream of them , but it was strange , not even in dreams could she approach them.
But at length , one night , she dreamt that the voices of her brothers sounded across to her , calling to her from the wide world , and she could not refrain , but went far far out , and yet it seemed in her dream that she was still in her father 's house.
She did not meet her brothers , but she felt , as it were , a fire burning in her hand , but it did not hurt her , for it was the jewel she was bringing to her father.
When she awoke , she thought for a moment that she still held the stone , but it was the knob of her distaff that she was grasping.
During the long nights she had spun incessantly , and round the distaff was turned a thread , finer than the finest web of the spider ; human eyes were unable to distinguish the separate threads.
She had wetted them with her tears , and the twist was strong as a cable.
She rose , and her resolution was taken : the dream must be made a reality.
It was night , and her father slept.
She pressed a kiss on his hand , and then took her distaff , and fastened the end of the thread to her father 's house.
But for this , blind as she was , she would never have found her way home ; to the thread she must hold fast , and trust not to herself or to others.
From the person_3 of the person_2 she broke four leaves ; these she would confide to wind and weather , that they might fly to her brothers as a letter and a greeting , in case she did not meet them in the wide world.
How would she fare out yonder , she , the poor blind child ? But she had the invisible thread to which she could hold fast.
She possessed a gift which all the others lacked.
This was _ thoroughness _ ; and in virtue of this it seemed as if she could see to the tips of her fingers , and hear down into her very heart.
And quietly she went forth into the noisy , whirling , wonderful world , and wherever she went the sky grew bright -- she felt the warm ray -- the rainbow spread itself out from the dark world through the blue air.
She heard the song of the birds , and smelt the scent of orange groves and apple orchards so strongly that she seemed to taste it.
Soft tones and charming songs reached her ear , but also howling and roaring , and thoughts and opinions , sounded in strange contradiction to each other.
Into the innermost depths of her heart penetrated the echoes of human thoughts and feelings.
One chorus sounded darkly -- `` The life of earth is a shadow vain A night created for sorrow !"
but then came another strain -- `` The life of earth is the scent of the rose , With its sunshine and its pleasure"
And if one strophe sounded painfully -- `` Each mortal thinks of himself alone , This truth has been manifested"
-- on the other side the answer pealed forth -- `` A mighty stream of warmest love , All through the world shall guide us"
She heard , indeed , the words -- `` In the little petty whirl here below , Each thing shows mean and paltry ;"
but then came also the comfort -- `` Many things great and good are achieved , That the ear of man heareth never"
and if sometimes the mocking strain sounded around her -- `` Join in the common cry : with a jest Destroy the good gifts of the Giver"
in the blind girl 's heart a stronger voice repeated -- `` To trust in thyself and in person_0 is best ; His good will be done for ever"
And whenever she entered the circle of human kind , and appeared among young or old , the knowledge of the true , the good , and the beautiful beamed into their hearts.
Whether she entered the study of the artist , or the festive , decorated hall , or the crowded factory , with its whirring wheels , it seemed as though a sunbeam were stealing in -- as if the sweet string sounded , the flower exhaled its perfume , and a living dew-drop fell upon the exhausted blood.
-LRB- Illustration : THE BLIND GIRL 'S MESSENGERS.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa But the evil spirit could not see this and be content.
He has more cunning than ten thousand men , and he found out a way to compass his end.
He betook himself to the marsh , collected little bubbles of the stagnant water , and passed over them a sevenfold echo of lying words to give them strength.
Then he pounded up paid-for heroic poems and lying epitaphs , as many as he could get , boiled them in tears that envy had shed , put upon them rouge he had scraped from faded cheeks , and of these he composed a maiden , with the aspect and gait of the blessed blind girl , the angel of thoroughness ; and then the Evil One 's plot was in full progress.
The world knew not which of the two was the true one ; and , indeed , how should the world know ? `` To trust in thyself and in person_0 is best ; His good will be done for ever ,"
sung the blind girl , in full faith.
She intrusted the four green leaves from the person_3 of the person_2 to the winds , as a letter and a greeting to her brothers , and had full confidence that they would reach their destination , and that the jewel would be found which outshines all the glories of the world.
From the forehead of humanity it would gleam even to the castle of her father.
`` Even to my father 's house ,"
she repeated.
`` Yes , the place of the jewel is on earth , and I shall bring more than the promise of it with me.
I feel its glow , it swells more and more in my closed hand.
Every grain of truth , were it ever so fine , which the sharp wind carried up and whirled towards me , I took up and treasured ; I let it be penetrated by the fragrance of the beautiful , of which there is so much in the world , even for the blind.
I took the sound of the beating heart engaged in what is good , and added it to the first.
All that I bring is but dust , but still it is the dust of the jewel we seek , and in plenty.
I have my whole hand full of it"
And she stretched forth her hand towards her father.
She was soon at home -- she had traveled thither in the flight of thoughts , never having quitted her hold of the invisible thread from the paternal home.
The evil powers rushed with hurricane fury over the person_3 of the person_2 , pressed with a wind-blast against the open doors , and into the sanctuary where lay the person_1 of person_4.
`` It will be blown away by the wind !"
said the father , and he seized the hand she had opened.
`` No ,"
she replied , with quiet confidence , `` it can not be blown away ; I feel the beam warming my very soul"
And the father became aware of a glancing flame , there where the shining dust poured out of her hand over the person_1 of person_4 , that was to tell of the certainty of an everlasting life , and on it stood one shining word -- one only word -- `` BELIEVE"
And with the father and daughter were again the four brothers.
When the green leaf fell upon the bosom of each , a longing for home had seized them , and led them back.
They had arrived.
The birds of passage , and the stag , the antelope , and all the creatures of the forest followed them , for all wished to have a part in their joy.
We have often seen , where a sunbeam bursts through a crack in the door into the dusty room , how a whirling column of dust seems circling round ; but this was not poor and insignificant like common dust , for even the rainbow is dead in color compared with the beauty which showed itself.
Thus , from the leaf of the book with the beaming word"
_ Believe _ ,"
arose every grain of truth , decked with the charms of _ the beautiful _ and _ the good _ , burning brighter than the mighty pillar of flame that led Moses and the children of Israel through the desert ; and from the word"
_ Believe _"
the bridge of _ Hope _ arose , spanning the distance , even to the immeasurable love in the realms of the Infinite"
Now , Farmer Green and his hired man had not chopped long before they stopped to breathe.
They had not chopped long -- but oh ! what great , yawning holes they had made in the big chestnut ! From the limb where he clung Fatty Coon looked down.
The tree no longer shook.
And Fatty felt better at once.
You see , he thought that the men would go away , just as Johnnie had gone away the night before.
But they had no such idea at all.
`` Which way are you going to fell her ?"
the hired man asked.
He said HER , meaning the TREE , of course.
`` That way !"
said Farmer Green , pointing toward the woods.
`` We 'll have to drop her that way , or she 'll fall right across the road , and of course THAT would never do"
`` But will she clear the trees on the edge of the woods ?"
The hired man appeared somewhat doubtful.
`` Oh , to be sure -- to be sure !"
answered Farmer Green.
And with that they set to work again.
But this time they both chopped on the same side of the tree -- the side toward the woods.
Now , if Fatty Coon was frightened before , you will believe that he was still more frightened when the big chestnut tree began to sag.
Yes ! it began to lean toward the woods.
Slowly , slowly it tipped.
And Fatty was scared half out of his mind.
He climbed to the very top of the tree , because he wanted to get just as far away from those men as he could.
And there he waited.
There was nothing else he could do.
Yes ! he waited until that awful moment should come when the tree would go crashing down upon the ground.
What was going to happen to him then ? Fatty wondered.
And while he was wondering there sounded all at once a great snapping and splitting.
And Fatty felt the tree falling , falling.
He could hear Johnnie Green shouting.
And he shut his eyes and held fast to his branch.
Then came the crash.
When Fatty Coon opened his eyes he expected to see Johnnie Green all ready to seize him.
But to his great surprise he was still far above the ground.
You see , Farmer Green had been mistaken.
Either the big chestnut tree was taller than he had guessed , or the woods were nearer than he had thought.
For instead of dropping upon the ground , Fatty 's tree had fallen right against another tree on the edge of the woods.
And there it lay , half-tipped over , with its branches caught fast in the branches of that other tree.
It was no wonder that Johnnie Green shouted.
And he shouted still more loudly when he saw Fatty scramble out of the big chestnut and into the other tree , and out of that tree and into another , and then out of THAT tree.
Fatty was going straight into the woods.
It was no wonder that Johnnie Green shouted.
For he had lost his pet coon.
He had lost him before he ever had him.
And he was sadly disappointed.
But Fatty Coon was not disappointed , for he had not wanted to be a pet at all.
And he was very glad -- you may be sure -- to get safely home once more"
A tailor 's apprentice was traveling about the world in search of work , and at one time he could find none , and his poverty was so great that he had not a farthing to live on.
Presently he met a Jew on the road , and as he thought he would have a great deal of money about him , the tailor thrust God out of his heart , fell on the Jew , and said , `` Give me thy money , or I will strike thee dead"
Then said the Jew , `` Grant me my life , I have no money but eight farthings"
But the tailor said , `` Money thou hast ; and it shall be produced ,"
and used violence and beat him until he was near death.
And when the Jew was dying , the last words he said were , `` The bright sun will bring it to light ,"
and thereupon he died.
The tailor 's apprentice felt in his pockets and sought for money , but he found nothing but eight farthings , as the Jew had said.
Then he took him up and carried him behind a clump of trees , and went onwards to seek work.
After he had traveled about a long while , he got work in a town with a master who had a pretty daughter , with whom he fell in love , and he married her , and lived in good and happy wedlock.
After a long time when he and his wife had two children , the wife 's father and mother died , and the young people kept house alone.
One morning , when the husband was sitting on the table before the window , his wife brought him his coffee , and when he had poured it out into the saucer , and was just going to drink , the sun shone on it and the reflection gleamed hither and thither on the wall above , and made circles on it.
Then the tailor looked up and said , `` Yes , it would like very much to bring it to light , and can not !"
The woman said , `` Oh , dear husband , and what is that , then ?"
`` What dost thou mean by that ?"
He answered , `` I must not tell thee"
But she said , `` If thou lovest me , thou must tell me ,"
and used her most affectionate words , and said that no one should ever know it , and left him no rest.
Then he told her how years ago , when he was traveling about seeking work and quite worn out and penniless , he had killed a Jew , and that in the last agonies of death , the Jew had spoken the words , `` The bright sun will bring it to light"
And now , the sun had just wanted to bring it to light , and had gleamed and made circles on the wall , but had not been able to do it.
After this , he again charged her particularly never to tell this , or he would lose his life , and she did promise.
When however , he had sat down to work again , she went to her great friend and confided the story to her , but she was never to repeat it to any human being , but before two days were over , the whole town knew it , and the tailor was brought to trial , and condemned.
And thus , after all , the bright sun did bring it to light"
It was the very next night after old dog Spot had treed Fatty Coon in the big oak near the cornfield.
They had finished their evening meal at Farmer person_0 's house.
The cows were milked , the horses had been fed , the chickens had all gone to roost.
And Farmer person_0 looked up at the moon , rising from behind Blue Mountain.
`` We 'll go coon-hunting again to-night ,"
he said to Johnnie and the hired man.
`` The corn has brought the coons up from the swamp.
We 'll start as soon as it grows a little darker"
Well -- after a while they set out for the cornfield.
And sure enough ! old Spot soon began to bark.
`` He 's treed !"
said Farmer person_0 , pretty soon.
And they all hurried over to the edge of the woods , where Spot had chased a coon up into a tall chestnut tree.
In the moonlight they could see the coon quite plainly.
`` Another little feller !"
cried Farmer person_0.
`` I declare , all the coons that come to the cornfield seem to be young ones.
This one 's no bigger than the one we saw last night"
Now , although Farmer person_0 never guessed it , it was Fatty Coon who was up there in the tall chestnut.
He had run almost to the woods this time , before he had to take to a tree.
In fact , if Spot had n't been quite so close to him Fatty could have reached the woods , and then he would have just jumped from one tree to another.
But there were no trees near enough the big chestnut for that.
Fatty had to stay right there and wait for those men to pass on.
He was n't afraid.
He felt perfectly safe in his big tree.
And he only smiled when Johnnie person_0 said to his father -- `` I wish I had that young coon.
He 'd make a fine pet"
`` A pet !"
exclaimed Farmer person_0.
`` You remember that pet fox you had , that stole my chickens ?"
`` Oh , I 'd be careful ,"
Johnnie promised.
`` Besides , do n't you think we ought to catch him , so he wo n't eat any more corn ?"
Farmer person_0 smiled.
He had been a boy himself , once upon a time , and he had not forgotten the pet coon that he had owned when he was just about Johnnie 's age.
`` All right !"
he said at last.
`` I 'll give you one more chance , Johnnie.
But you 'll have to see that this young coon does n't kill any of my poultry"
Johnnie promised that nothing of the sort should happen.
And then his father and the hired man picked up their axes ; and standing on opposite sides of the tall chestnut tree , they began to chop.
How the chips did fly ! At the very first blow Fatty knew that this was an entirely different sort of chopping from that which Johnnie had attempted the night before.
The great tree shook as if it knew that it would soon come crashing down upon the ground.
And as for Fatty Coon , he could not see but that he must fall when the tree did.
He , too , shivered and shook.
And he wrapped himself all the way around a limb and hung on as tight as ever he could"
Soon after his marriage person_6 dreamt one night that he saw his father Schahzaman on his death-bed , and heard him speak thus to his attendants : ` My son , my son , whom I so tenderly loved , has abandoned me.
' He awoke with a great sigh , which aroused the princess , who asked him the cause of it.
Next morning the princess went to her own father , and finding him alone kissed his hand and thus addressed herself to him : ` Sir , I have a favor to beg of your majesty ; it is that you will give me leave to go with the prince my husband to see person_3 Schahzaman , my father-in-law.
' ` Daughter , ' replied the king , ` though I shall be very sorry to part with you for so long a time , your resolution is worthy of you : go , child , I give you leave , but on condition that you stay no longer than a year in person_3 Schahzaman 's court.
' The princess communicated the person_3 of China 's consent to person_6 , who was transported with joy to hear it.
The person_3 of China gave orders for preparations to be made for the journey ; and when all things were ready , he accompanied the prince and princess several days ' journey on their way.
They parted at length with great weeping on all sides : the king embraced them , and having desired the prince to be kind to his daughter , and to love her always , he left them to proceed on their journey , and , to divert his thoughts , hunted all the way home.
person_6 and the person_6ss person_0 traveled for about a month , and at last came to a meadow of great extent , planted with tall trees , forming an agreeable shade.
The day being unusually hot , person_4 thought it best to encamp there.
They alighted in one of the finest spots , and the prince ordered his servants to pitch their tents , and went himself to give directions.
The princess , weary with the fatigue of the journey , bade her women untie her girdle , which they laid down by her , and when she fell asleep , her attendants left her by herself.
person_6 having seen all things in order came to the tent where the princess was sleeping ; he entered , and sat down without making any noise , intending to take a nap himself ; but observing the princess 's girdle lying by her , he took it up , and looked at the diamonds and rubies one by one.
In doing this , he saw a little purse hanging to it , sewed neatly on to the stuff , and tied fast with a ribbon ; he felt it , and found there was something solid inside it.
Desirous to know what it was , he opened the purse , and took out a cornelian , engraven with unknown figures and characters.
` This cornelian , ' said the prince to himself , ` must be something very valuable , or my princess would not carry it with so much care.
' It was person_0 's talisman , which the Queen of China had given her daughter as a charm , to keep her , as she said , from any harm as long as she had it about her.
The prince , the better to look at the talisman , took it out to the light , the tent being dark ; and while he was holding it up in his hand , a bird darted down from the air and snatched it away from him.
Imagine the concern and grief of person_6 when he saw the bird fly away with the talisman.
He was more troubled at it than words can express , and cursed his unseasonable curiosity , by which his dear princess had lost a treasure that was so precious and so much valued by her.
The bird having got her prize settled on the ground not far off , with the talisman in her mouth.
The prince drew near , in hopes she would drop it ; but , as he approached , the bird took wing , and settled again on the ground further off.
person_4 followed , and the bird , having swallowed the talisman , took a further flight : the prince still followed ; the further she flew , the more eager he grew in pursuing her.
Thus the bird drew him along from hill to valley , and valley to hill all day , every step leading him further away from the field where he had left his camp and the person_6ss person_0 ; and instead of perching at night on a bush where he might probably have taken her , she roosted on a high tree , safe from pursuit.
The prince , vexed to the heart for taking so much pains to no purpose , thought of returning to the camp ; ` but , ' said he to himself , ` which way shall I return ? Shall I go down the hills and valleys which I passed over ? Shall I wander in darkness ? and will my strength bear me out ? How dare I appear before my princess without her talisman ? ' Overwhelmed with such thoughts , and tired with the pursuit , he lay down under a tree , where he passed the night.
He awoke the next morning before the bird had left the tree , and , as soon as he saw her on the wing , followed her again that whole day , with no better success , eating nothing but herbs and fruits all the way.
He did the same for ten days together , pursuing the bird , and keeping his eye upon her from morning to night , always lying under the tree where she roosted.
On the eleventh day the bird continued flying , and came near a great city.
When the bird came to the walls , she flew over them and the prince saw no more of her ; so he despaired of ever recovering the person_6ss person_0 's talisman.
person_4 , whose grief was beyond expression , went into the city , which was built by the seaside , and had a fine port ; he walked up and down the streets without knowing where he was , or where to stop.
At last he came to the port , in as great uncertainty as ever what he should do.
Walking along the river-side , he perceived the gate of a garden open , and an old gardener at work.
The good man looked up and saw that he was a stranger and a Mussulman , so he asked him to come in , and to shut the door after him.
person_4 entered , and , as the gardener bade him shut the door , demanded of the gardener why he was so cautious.
` Because , ' replied the old man , ` I see you are a stranger newly arrived , and a Mussulman , and this city is inhabited for the most part by idolaters , who have a mortal aversion to us Mussulmans , and treat those few of us that are here with great barbarity.
I suppose you did not know this , and it is a miracle that you have escaped as you have thus far , these idolaters being very apt to fall upon the Mussulmans that are strangers , or to draw them into a snare , unless those strangers know how to beware of them.
' person_4 thanked the honest gardener for his advice , and the safety he offered him in his house : he would have said more , but the good man interrupted him , saying , ` You are weary , and must want to refresh yourself.
Come in and rest.
' He conducted him into his little hut , and after the prince had eaten heartily of what he set before him , he requested him to relate how he came there.
person_4 complied with his request , and when he had ended his story , he asked him which was the nearest way to the king his father 's territories ; ` for it is in vain , ' said he , ` for me to think of finding my princess where I left her , after wandering eleven days from the spot.
Ah ! ' continued he , ` how do I know she is alive ? ' and so saying , he burst into tears.
The gardener replied that there was no possibility of his going thither by land , the roads were so difficult and the journey so long ; besides , he must necessarily pass through the countries of so many barbarous nations that he would never reach his father 's.
It was a year 's journey from the city where he was to any country inhabited only by Mussulmans ; the quickest passage for him would be to go to the person_1 of person_7 , whence he might easily transport himself to the person_1s of the Children of Khaledan : a ship sailed from the port every year to person_7 , and he might take that opportunity of returning to those islands.
` The ship departed , ' said the gardener , ` but a few days ago : if you had come a little sooner you might have taken your passage in it.
If you will wait the year round until it makes the voyage again , and will stay with me in my house , such as it is , you will be as welcome to it as to your own.
' person_6 was glad he had met with such a place of refuge , in a place where he had no acquaintances.
He accepted the offer , and lived with the gardener till the time came that the ship was to sail to the person_1 of person_7.
He spent his time in working all day in the garden , and all night in sighs , tears and complaints , thinking of his dear person_6ss person_0.
We must leave him in this place , to return to the princess , whom we left asleep in her tent.
The princess slept a long time , and , when she awoke , wondered that person_6 was not with her ; she called her women , and asked them if they knew where he was.
They told her they saw him enter the tent , but did not see him go out again.
While they were talking to her , she took up her girdle , found the little purse open , and the talisman gone.
She did not doubt but that person_4 had taken it to see what it was , and that he would bring it back with him.
She waited for him impatiently till night , and could not imagine what made him stay away from her so long.
When it was quite dark , and she could hear no news of him , she fell into violent grief ; she cursed the talisman , and the man that made it.
She could not imagine how her talisman should have caused the prince 's separation from her : she did not however lose her judgment , and came to a courageous decision as to what she should do.
She only and her women knew of the prince 's being gone ; for his men were asleep in their tents.
The princess , fearing they would betray her if they had any knowledge of it , moderated her grief , and forbade her women to say or do anything that might create the least suspicion.
She then laid aside her robe , and put on one of person_6 's , being so like him that next day , when she came out , his men took her for him.
She commanded them to pack up their baggage and begin their march ; and when all things were ready , she ordered one of her women to go into her litter , she herself mounting on horseback , and riding by her side.
They traveled for several months by land and sea ; the princess continuing , the journey under the name of person_4.
They took the person_1 of person_7 on their way to the person_1s of the Children of Khaledan.
They went to the capital of the person_1 of person_7 , where a king reigned whose name was Armanos.
The persons who first landed gave out that the ship carried person_6 , who was returning from a long voyage and was driven in there by a storm , and the news of his arrival was presently carried to the court.
person_3 Armanos , accompanied by most of his courtiers , went immediately to meet the prince , and met the princess just as she was landing , and going to the lodging that had been taken for her.
He received her as the son of a king who was his friend , and conducted her to the palace , where an apartment was prepared for her and all her attendants , though she would fain have excused herself , and have lodged in a private house.
He showed her all possible honor , and entertained her for three days with extraordinary magnificence.
At the end of this time , person_3 Armanos , understanding that the princess , whom he still took for person_6 , talked of going on board again to proceed on her voyage , charmed with the air and qualities of such an accomplished prince as he took her to be , seized an opportunity when she was alone , and spoke to her in this manner : ` You see , prince , that I am old , and can not hope to live long ; and , to my great mortification , I have not a son to whom I may leave my crown.
Heaven has only blest me with one daughter , the person_6ss person_5 whose beauty can not be better matched than with a prince of your rank and accomplishments.
Instead of going home , stay and marry her from my hand , with my crown , which I resign in your favor.
It is time for me to rest , and nothing could be a greater pleasure to me in my retirement than to see my people ruled by so worthy a successor to my throne.
' The person_3 of the person_1 of person_7 's generous offer to bestow his only daughter in marriage , and with her his kingdom , on the person_6ss person_0 , put her into unexpected perplexity.
She thought it would not become a princess of her rank to undeceive the king , and to own that she was not person_6 , but his wife , when she had assured him that she was he himself , whose part she had hitherto acted so well.
She was also afraid refuse the honor he offered her , lest , as he was much bent upon the marriage , his kindness might turn to aversion and hatred , and he might attempt something even against her life.
Besides , she was not sure whether she might not find person_6 in the court of person_3 Schahzaman his father.
These considerations , added to the prospect of obtaining a kingdom for the prince her husband , in case she found him again , determined her to accept the proposal of person_3 Armanos , and marry his daughter ; so after having stood silent for some minutes , she with blushes , which the king took for a sign of modesty , answered , ` Sir , I am infinitely obliged to your majesty for your good opinion of me , for the honor you do me , and the great favor you offer me , which I can not pretend to merit , and dare not refuse.
` But , sir , ' continued she , ` I can not accept this great alliance on any other condition than that your majesty will assist me with your counsel , and that I do nothing without first having your approbation.
' The marriage treaty being thus concluded and agreed on , the ceremony was put off till next day.
In the mean time person_6ss person_0 gave notice to her officers , who still took her for person_6 , of what she was going to do so that they might not be surprised at it , assuring them that the person_6ss person_0 consented.
She talked also to her women , and charged them to continue to keep the secret.
The person_3 of the person_1 of person_7 , rejoicing that he had got a son-in - law so much to his satisfaction , next morning summoned his council , and acquainted them with his design of marrying his daughter to person_6 , whom he introduced to them ; and having made him sit down by his side , told them he resigned the crown to the prince , and required them to acknowledge him for king , and swear fealty to him.
Having said this , he descended from his throne , and the person_6ss person_0 , by his order , ascended it.
As soon as the council broke up , the new king was proclaimed through the city , rejoicings were appointed for several days , and couriers despatched all over the kingdom to see the same ceremonies observed with the same demonstrations of joy.
As soon as they were alone , the person_6ss person_0 told the person_6ss person_5 the secret , and begged her to keep it , which she promised faithfully to do.
` person_6ss , ' said person_5 , ` your fortune is indeed strange , that a marriage , so happy as yours was , should be shortened by so unaccountable an accident.
Pray heaven you may meet with your husband again soon , and be sure that I will religiously keep the secret committed to me.
It will be to me the greatest pleasure in the world to be the only person in the great kingdom of the person_1 of person_7 who knows what and who you are , while you go on governing the people as happily as you have begun.
I only ask of you at present to be your friend.
' Then the two princesses tenderly embraced each other , and after a thousand expressions of mutual friendship lay down to rest.
While these things were taking place in the court of the person_1 of person_7 , person_6 stayed in the city of idolaters with the gardener , who had offered him his house till the ship sailed.
One morning when the prince was up early , and , as he used to do , was preparing to work in the garden , the gardener prevented him , saying , ` This day is a great festival among the idolaters , and because they abstain from all work themselves , so as to spend the time in their assemblies and public rejoicings , they will not let the Mussulmans work.
Their shows are worth seeing.
You will have nothing to do to-day : I leave you here.
As the time approaches in which the ship is accustomed to sail for the person_1 of person_7 , I will go and see some of my friends , and secure you a passage in it.
' The gardener put on his best clothes , and went out.
When person_6 was alone , instead of going out to take part in the public joy of the city , the solitude he was in brought to his mind , with more than usual violence , the loss of his dear princess.
He walked up and down the garden sighing and groaning , till the noise which two birds made on a neighbouring tree tempted him to lift up his head , and stop to see what was the matter.
person_4 was surprised to behold a furious battle between these two birds , fighting one another with their beaks.
In a very little while one of them fell down dead at the foot of a tree ; the bird that was victorious took wing again , and flew away.
In an instant , two other large birds , that had seen the fight at a distance , came from the other side of the garden , and pitched on the ground one at the feet and the other at the head of the dead bird : they looked at it some time , shaking their heads in token of grief ; after which they dug a grave with their talons , and buried it.
When they had filled up the grave with the earth they flew away , and returned in a few minutes , bringing with them the bird that had committed the murder , the one holding one of its wings in its beak , and the other one of its legs ; the criminal all the while crying out in a doleful manner , and struggling to escape.
They carried it to the grave of the bird which it had lately sacrificed to its rage , and there sacrificed it in just revenge for the murder it had committed.
They killed the murderer with their beaks.
They then opened it , tore out the entrails , left the body on the spot unburied , and flew away.
person_4 remained in great astonishment all the time that he stood beholding this sight.
He drew near the tree , and casting his eyes on the scattered entrails of the bird that was last killed , he spied something red hanging out of its body.
He took it up , and found it was his beloved person_6ss person_0 's talisman , which had cost him so much pain and sorrow and so many sighs since the bird snatched it out of his hand.
` Ah , cruel monster ! ' said he to himself , still looking at the bird , ` thou tookest delight in doing mischief , so I have the less reason to complain of that which thou didst to me : but the greater it was , the more do I wish well to those that revenged my quarrel on thee , in punishing thee for the murder of one of their own kind.
' It is impossible to express person_6 's joy : ` Dear princess , ' continued he to himself , ` this happy minute , which restores to me a treasure so precious to thee , is without doubt a presage of our meeting again , perhaps even sooner than I think.
' So saying , he kissed the talisman , wrapped it up in a ribbon , and tied it carefully about his arm.
Till now he had been almost every night a stranger to rest , his trouble always keeping him awake , but the next night he slept soundly : he rose somewhat later the next morning than he was accustomed to do , put on his working clothes , and went to the gardener for orders.
The good man bade him root up an old tree which bore no fruit.
person_4 took an axe , and began his work.
In cutting off a branch of the root , he found that his axe struck against something that resisted the blow and made a great noise.
He removed the earth , and discovered a broad plate of brass , under which was a staircase of ten steps.
He went down , and at the bottom saw a cavity about six yards square , with fifty brass urns placed in order around it , each with a cover over it.
He opened them all , one after another , and there was not one of them which was not full of gold-dust.
He came out of the cave , rejoicing that he had found such a vast treasure : he put the brass plate over the staircase , and rooted up the tree against the gardener 's return.
The gardener had learned the day before that the ship which was bound for the person_1 of person_7 would sail in a few days , but the exact time was not yet fixed.
His friend promised to let him know the day , if he called upon him on the morrow ; and while person_4 was rooting up the tree , he went to get his answer.
He returned with a joyful countenance , by which the prince guessed that he brought him good news.
` Son , ' said the old man -LRB- so he always called him , on account of the difference of age between him and the prince -RRB- , ` be joyful , and prepare to embark in three days , for the ship will then certainly set sail : I have arranged with the captain for your passage.
' ` In my present situation , ' replied person_4 , ` you could not bring me more agreeable news ; and in return , I have also tidings that will be as welcome to you ; come along with me , and you shall see what good fortune heaven has in store for you.
' The prince led the gardener to the place where he had rooted up the tree , made him go down into the cave , and when he was there showed him what a treasure he had discovered , and thanked Providence for rewarding his virtue , and the labor he had done for so many years.
` What do you mean ? ' replied the gardener : ` do you imagine I will take these riches as mine ? They are yours : I have no right to them.
For fourscore years , since my father 's death , I have done nothing but dig in this garden , and could not discover this treasure , which is a sign that it was destined for you , since you have been permitted to find it.
It suits a prince like you , rather than me : I have one foot in the grave , and am in no want of anything.
Providence has bestowed it upon you , just when you are returning to that country which will one day be your own , where you will make a good use of it.
' person_6 would not be outdone in generosity by the gardener.
They had a long dispute about it.
At last the prince solemnly protested that he would have none of it , unless the gardener would divide it with him and take half.
The good man , to please the prince , consented ; so they parted it between them , and each had twenty-five urns.
Having thus divided it , ` Son , ' said the gardener to the prince , ` it is not enough that you have got this treasure ; we must now contrive how to carry it so privately on board the ship that nobody may know anything of the matter , otherwise you will run the risk of losing it.
There are no olives in the person_1 of person_7 , and those that are exported hence are wanted there ; you know I have plenty of them ; take what you will ; fill fifty pots , half with the gold dust , and half with olives , and I will get them carried to the ship when you embark.
' person_4 followed this good advice , and spent the rest of the day in packing up the gold and the olives in the fifty pots , and fearing lest the talisman , which he wore on his arm , might be lost again , he carefully put it into one of the pots , marking it with a particular mark , to distinguish it from the rest.
When they were all ready to be shipped , the prince retired with the gardener , and talking together , he related to him the battle of the birds , and how he had found the person_6ss person_0 's talisman again.
The gardener was equally surprised and joyful to hear it for his sake.
Whether the old man was quite worn out with age , or had exhausted himself too much that day , he had a very bad night ; he grew worse the next day , and on the third day , when the prince was to embark , was so ill that it was plain he was near his end.
As soon as day broke , the captain of the ship came in person with several seamen to the gardener 's ; they knocked at the garden-door , and person_4 opened it to them.
They asked him where the passenger was that was to go with him.
The prince answered , ` I am he ; the gardener who arranged with you for my passage is ill , and can not be spoken with : come in , and let your men carry those pots of olives and my baggage aboard.
I will only take leave of the gardener , and follow you.
' The seamen took up the pots and the baggage , and the captain bade the prince make haste , for the wind being fair they were waiting for nothing but him.
When the captain and his men were gone , person_4 went to the gardener , to take leave of him , and thank him for all his good offices : but he found him in the agonies of death , and had scarcely time to bid him rehearse the articles of his faith , which all good Mussulmans do before they die , when the gardener expired in his presence.
The prince being under the necessity of embarking immediately hastened to pay the last duty to the deceased.
He washed his body , buried him in his own garden -LRB- for the Mahometans had no cemetery in the city of the idolaters , where they were only tolerated -RRB- , and as he had nobody to assist him it was almost evening before he had put him in the ground.
As soon as he had done it he ran to the water - side , carrying with him the key of the garden , intending , if he had time , to give it to the landlord ; otherwise to deposit it in some trusty person 's hand before a witness , that he might leave it when he was gone.
When he came to the port , he was told the ship had sailed several hours before he came and was already out of sight.
It had waited three hours for him , and the wind standing fair , the captain dared not stay any longer.
It is easy to imagine that person_6 was exceedingly grieved to be forced to stay longer in a country where he neither had nor wished to have any acquaintance : to think that he must wait another twelvemonth for the opportunity he had lost.
But the greatest affliction of all was his having let go the person_6ss person_0 's talisman , which he now gave over for lost.
The only course that was left for him to take was to return to the garden to rent it of the landlord , and to continue to cultivate it by himself , deploring his misery and misfortunes.
He hired a boy to help him to do some part of the drudgery ; and that he might not lose the other half of the treasure , which came to him by the death of the gardener , who died without heirs , he put the gold-dust into fifty other pots , which he filled up with olives , to be ready against the time of the ship 's return.
While person_6 began another year of labor , sorrow and impatience , the ship , having a fair wind , continued her voyage to the person_1 of person_7 , and happily arrived at the capital.
The palace being by the sea-side , the new king , or rather the person_6ss person_0 , espying the ship as she was entering the port , with all her flags flying , asked what vessel it was ; she was told that it came annually from the city of the idolaters , and was generally richly laden.
The princess , who always had person_6 in her mind amidst the glories which surrounded her , imagined that the prince might be on board , and resolved to go down to the ship and meet him.
Under presence of inquiring what merchandise was on board , and having the first sight of the goods , and choosing the most valuable , she commanded a horse to be brought , which she mounted , and rode to the port , accompanied by several officers in waiting , and arrived at the port just as the captain came ashore.
She ordered him to be brought before her , and asked whence he came , how long he had been on his voyage , and what good or bad fortune he had met with : if he had any stranger of quality on board , and particularly with what his ship was laden.
The captain gave a satisfactory answer to all her demands ; and as to passengers , assured her that there were none but merchants in his ship , who were used to come every year and bring rich stuffs from several parts of the world to trade with , the finest linens painted and plain , diamonds , musk , ambergris , camphor , civet , spices , drugs , olives , and many other articles.
The person_6ss person_0 loved olives extremely : when she heard the captain speak of them , she said , ` Land them , I will take them off your hands : as to the other goods , tell the merchants to bring them to me , and let me see them before they dispose of them , or show them to any one else.
' The captain , taking her for the person_3 of the person_1 of person_7 , replied , ` Sire , there are fifty great pots of olives , but they belong to a merchant whom I was forced to leave behind.
I gave him notice myself that I was waiting for him , and waited a long time ; but as he did not come , and the wind was good , I was afraid of losing it , and so set sail.
' The princess answered , ` No matter ; bring them ashore ; we will make a bargain for them.
' The captain sent his boat aboard , and in a little time it returned with the pots of olives.
The princess demanded how much the fifty pots might be worth in the person_1 of person_7.
` Sir , ' said the captain , ` the merchant is very poor , and your majesty will do him a singular favor if you give him a thousand pieces of silver.
' ` To satisfy him , ' replied the princess , ` and because you tell me he is poor , I will order you a thousand pieces of gold for him , which do you take care to give him.
' The money was accordingly , paid , and the pots carried to the palace in her presence.
Night was drawing on when the princess withdrew into the inner palace , and went to the person_6ss person_5 ' apartment , ordering the fifty pots of olives to be brought thither.
She opened one , to let the person_6ss person_5 taste them , and poured them into a dish.
Great was her astonishment when she found the olives mingled with gold-dust.
` What can this mean ? ' said she , ` it is wonderful beyond comprehension.
' Her curiosity increasing , she ordered person_5 ' women to open and empty all the pots in her presence ; and her wonder was still greater , when she saw that the olives in all of them were mixed with gold-dust ; but when she saw her talisman drop out of that into which the prince had put it , she was so surprised that she fainted away.
The person_6ss person_5 and her women restored the person_6ss person_0 by throwing cold water on her face.
When she recovered her senses , she took the talisman and kissed it again and again ; but not being willing that the person_6ss person_5 's women , who were ignorant of her disguise , should hear what she said , she dismissed them.
` person_6ss , ' said she to person_5 , as soon as they were gone , ` you , who have heard my story , surely guessed that it was at the sight of the talisman that I fainted.
This is the talisman , the fatal cause of my losing my dear husband person_6 ; but as it was that which caused our separation , so I foresee it will be the means of our meeting again soon.
' The next day , as soon as it was light , she sent for the captain of the ship ; and when he came she spoke to him thus : ` I want to know something more of the merchant to whom the olives belong , that I bought of you yesterday.
I think you told me you had left him behind you in the city of the idolaters : can you tell me what he is doing there ? ' ` Yes , sire , ' replied the captain , ` I can speak on my own knowledge.
I arranged for his passage with a very old gardener , who told me I should find him in his garden , where he worked under him.
He showed me the place , and for that reason I told your majesty he was poor.
I went there to call him.
I told him what haste I was in , spoke to him myself in the garden , and can not be mistaken in the man.
' ` If what you say is true , ' replied the person_6ss person_0 , ` you must set sail this very day for the city of idolaters , and fetch me that gardener 's man , who is my debtor ; else I will not only confiscate all your goods and those of your merchants , but your and their lives shall answer for his.
I have ordered my seal to be put on the warehouses where they are , which shall not be taken off till you bring me that man.
This is all I have to say to you ; go , and do as I command you.
' The captain could make no reply to this order , the disobeying of which would be a very great loss to him and his merchants.
He told them about it , and they hastened him away as fast as they could after he had laid in a stock of provisions and fresh water for his voyage.
They were so diligent , that he set sail the same day.
He had a prosperous voyage to the city of the idolaters , where he arrived in the night.
When he was as near to the city as he thought convenient , he would not cast anchor , but let the ship ride off the shore ; and going into his boat , with six of his stoutest seamen , he landed a little way off the port , whence he went directly to person_4 's garden.
Though it was about midnight when he arrived there , the prince was not asleep.
His separation from the fair person_6ss of China his wife afflicted him as usual.
He cursed the minute in which his curiosity tempted him to touch the fatal girdle.
Thus did he pass those hours which are devoted to rest , when he heard somebody knock at the garden door.
He ran hastily to it , half-dressed as he was ; but he had no sooner opened it , than the captain and his seamen took hold of him , and carried him by force on board the boat , and so to the ship , and as soon as he was safely lodged , they set sail immediately , and made the best of their way to the person_1 of person_7.
Hitherto person_4 , the captain , and his men had not said a word to one another ; at last the prince broke silence , and asked the captain , whom he recognized , why they had taken him away by force ? The captain in his turn demanded of the prince whether he was not a debtor of the person_3 of person_7 ? ` I the person_3 of person_7 's debtor ! ' replied person_4 in amazement ; ` I do not know him , I never had anything to do with him in my life , and never set foot in his kingdom.
' The captain answered , ` You should know that better than I ; you will talk to him yourself in a little while : till then , stay here and have patience.
' Though it was night when he cast anchor in the port , the captain landed immediately , and taking person_6 with him hastened to the palace , where he demanded to be introduced to the king.
The person_6ss person_0 had withdrawn into the inner palace ; however , as soon as she had heard of the captain 's return and person_4 's arrival , she came out to speak to him.
As soon as she set her eyes on the prince , for whom she had shed so many tears , she knew him in his gardener 's clothes.
As for the prince , who trembled in the presence of a king , as he thought her , to whom he was to answer for an imaginary debt , it did not enter into his head that the person whom he so earnestly desired to see stood before him.
If the princess had followed the dictates of her inclination , she would have run to him and embraced him , but she put a constraint on herself , believing that it was for the interest of both that she should act the part of a king a little longer before she made herself known.
She contented herself for the present with putting him into the hands of an officer , who was then in waiting , with a charge to take care of him till the next day.
When the person_6ss person_0 had provided for person_6 , she turned to the captain , whom she was now to reward for the important service he had done her.
She commanded another officer to go immediately and take the seal off the warehouse where his and his merchants ' goods were , and gave him a rich diamond , worth much more than the expense of both his voyages.
She bade him besides keep the thousand pieces of gold she had given him for the pots of olives , telling him she would make up the account with the merchant herself.
This done , she retired to the person_6ss of the person_1 of person_7 's apartment , to whom she communicated her joy , praying her to keep the secret still.
She told her how she intended to manage to reveal herself to person_6 , and to give him the kingdom.
The person_6ss of the person_1 of person_7 was so far from betraying her , that she rejoiced and entered fully into the plan.
The next morning the person_6ss of China ordered person_6 to be apparelled in the robes of an emir or governor of a province.
She commanded him to be introduced into the council , where his fine person and majestic air drew all the eyes of the lords there present upon him.
The person_6ss person_0 herself was charmed to see him again , as handsome as she had often seen him , and her pleasure inspired her to speak the more warmly in his praise.
When she addressed herself to the council , having ordered the prince to take his seat among the emirs , she spoke to them thus : ` My lords , this emir whom I have advanced to the same dignity with you is not unworthy the place assigned him.
I have known enough of him in my travels to answer for him , and I can assure you he will make his merit known to all of you.
' person_4 was extremely amazed to hear the person_3 of the person_1 of person_7 , whom he was far from taking for a woman , much less for his dear princess , name him , and declare that he knew him , while he thought himself certain that he had never seen him before in his life.
He was much more surprised when he heard him praise him so excessively.
Those praises , however , did not disconcert him , though he received them with such modesty as showed that he did not grow vain.
He prostrated himself before the throne of the king , and rising again , ` Sire , ' said he , ` I want words to express my gratitude to your majesty for the honor you have done me : I shall do all in my power to render myself worthy of your royal favor.
' From the council-board the prince was conducted to a palace , which the person_6ss person_0 had ordered to be fitted up for him ; where he found officers and domestics ready to obey his commands , a stable full of fine horses , and everything suitable to the rank of an emir.
Then the steward of his household brought him a strong box full of gold for his expenses.
The less he understood whence came his great good fortune , the more he admired it , but never once imagined that he owed it to the person_6ss of China.
Two or three days after , the person_6ss person_0 , that he might be nearer to her , and in a more distinguished post , made him high treasurer , which office had lately become vacant.
He behaved himself in his new charge with so much integrity , yet obliging everybody , that he not only gained the friendship of the great but also the affections of the people , by his uprightness and bounty.
person_4 would have been the happiest man in the world , if he had had his princess with him.
In the midst of his good fortune he never ceased lamenting her , and grieved that he could hear no tidings of her , especially in a country where she must necessarily have come on her way to his father 's court after their separation.
He would have suspected something had the person_6ss person_0 still gone by the name of person_4 , but on her accession to the throne she changed it , and took that of Armanos , in honor of the old king her father-in-law.
She was now known only by the name of the young person_3 Armanos.
There were very few courtiers who knew that she had ever been called person_4 , which name she assumed when she arrived at the court of the person_1 of person_7 , nor had person_4 so much acquaintance with any of them yet as to learn more of her history.
The princess fearing he might do so in time , and desiring that he should owe the discovery to herself only , resolved to put an end to her own torment and his ; for she had observed that as often as she discoursed with him about the affairs of his office , he fetched such deep sighs as could be addressed to nobody but her.
She herself also lived under such constraint that she could endure it no longer.
The person_6ss person_0 had no sooner made this decision with the person_6ss person_5 , than she took person_6 aside , saying , ` I must talk with you about an affair , person_4 , which requires much consideration , and on which I want your advice.
Come hither in the evening , and leave word at home that you will not return ; I will take care to provide you a bed.
' person_4 came punctually to the palace at the hour appointed by the princess ; she took him with her into the inner apartment , and having told the chief chamberlain , who was preparing to follow her , that she had no occasion for his service , and that he should only keep the door shut , she took him into a different apartment.
When the prince and princess entered the chamber she shut the door , and , taking the talisman out of a little box , gave it to person_4 , saying , ` It is not long since an astrologer presented me with this talisman ; you being skilful in all things , may perhaps tell me its use.
' person_4 took the talisman , and drew near a lamp to look at it.
As soon as he recollected it , with an astonishment which gave the princess great pleasure , ` Sire , ' said he to the princess , ` your majesty asked me what this talisman is good for.
Alas ! it is only good to kill me with grief and despair , if I do not quickly find the most charming and lovely princess in the world to whom it belonged , whose loss it occasioned by a strange adventure , the very recital of which will move your majesty to pity such an unfortunate husband and lover , if you would have patience to hear it.
' ` You shall tell me that another time , ' replied the princess ; ` I am very glad to tell you I know something of it already ; stay here a little , and I will return to you in a moment.
' At these words she went into her dressing-room , put off her royal turban , and in a few minutes dressed herself like a woman ; and having the girdle round her which she wore on the day of their separation , she entered the chamber.
person_6 immediately knew his dear princess , ran to her , and tenderly embraced her , crying out , ` How much I am obliged to the king , who has so agreeably surprised me ! ' ` Do not expect to see the king any more , ' replied the princess , embracing him in her turn , with tears in her eyes ; ` you see him in me : sit down , and I will explain this enigma to you.
' They sat down , and the princess told the prince the resolution she came to , in the field where they encamped the last time they were together , as soon as she perceived that she waited for him to no purpose ; how she went through with it till she arrived at the person_1 of person_7 , where she had been obliged to marry the person_6ss person_5 , and accept the crown which person_3 Armanos offered her as a condition of the marriage : how the princess , whose merit she highly extolled , had kept the secret , and how she found the talisman in the pots of olives mingled with the gold dust , and how the finding it was the cause of her sending for him to the city of the idolaters.
The person_6ss person_0 and person_6 rose next morning as soon as it was light , but the princess would no more put on her royal robes as king ; she dressed herself in the dress of a woman , and then sent the chief chamberlain to person_3 Armanos , her father-in - law to desire he would be so good as to come to her apartment.
When the king entered the chamber , he was amazed to see there a lady who was unknown to him , and the high treasurer with her , who was not permitted to come within the inner palace.
He sat down and asked where the king was.
The princess answered , ` Yesterday I was king , sir , and to-day I am the person_6ss of China , wife of the true person_6 , the true son of person_3 Schahzaman.
If your majesty will have the patience to hear both our stories , I hope you will not condemn me for putting an innocent deceit upon you.
' The king bade her go on , and heard her discourse from the beginning to the end with astonishment.
The princess on finishing it said to him , ` Sir , in our religion men may have several wives ; if your majesty will consent to give your daughter the person_6ss person_5 in marriage to person_6 , I will with all my heart yield up to her the rank and quality of queen , which of right belongs to her , and content myself with the second place.
If this precedence was not her due , I would , however , give it her , after she has kept my secret so generously.
' person_3 Armanos listened to the princess with astonishment , and when she had done , turned to person_6 , saying , ` Son , since the person_6ss person_0 your wife , whom I have all along thought to be my son-in-law , through a deceit of which I can not complain , assures me that she is willing , I have nothing more to do but to ask you if you are willing to marry my daughter and accept the crown , which the person_6ss person_0 would deservedly wear as long as she lived , if she did not quit it out of love to you.
' ` Sir , ' replied person_6 , ` though I desire nothing so earnestly as to see the king my father , yet the obligation I am under to your majesty and the person_6ss person_5 are so weighty , I can refuse her nothing.
' person_4 was proclaimed king , and married the same day with all possible demonstrations of joy.
Not long afterwards they all resumed the long interrupted journey to the person_1s of the Children of Khaledan , where they were fortunate enough to find the old person_3 Schahzaman still alive and overjoyed to see his son once more ; and after several months ' rejoicing , person_3 and the two queens returned to the Island of person_7 , where they lived in great happiness for the remainder of their lives"
There were once three apprentices , who had agreed to keep always together while traveling , and always to work in the same town.
At one time , however , their masters had no more work to give them , so that at last they were in rags , and had nothing to live on.
Then one of them said , `` What shall we do ? We can not stay here any longer , we will travel once more , and if we do not find any work in the town we go to , we will arrange with the innkeeper there , that we are to write and tell him where we are staying , so that we can always have news of each other , and then we will separate"
And that seemed best to the others also.
They went forth , and met on the way a richly-dressed man who asked who they were.
`` We are apprentices looking for work ; Up to this time we have kept together , but if we can not find anything to do we are going to separate"
`` There is no need for that ,"
said the man , `` if you will do what I tell you , you shall not want for gold or for work ; nay , you shall become great lords , and drive in your carriages !"
One of them said , `` If our souls and salvation be not endangered , we will certainly do it"
`` They will not ,"
replied the man , `` I have no claim on you"
One of the others had , however , looked at his feet , and when he saw a horse 's foot and a man 's foot , he did not want to have anything to do with him.
The Devil , however , said , `` Be easy , I have no designs on you , but on another soul , which is half my own already , and whose measure shall but run full"
As they were now secure , they consented , and the Devil told them what he wanted.
The first was to answer , `` All three of us ,"
to every question ; the second was to say , `` For money ,"
and the third , `` And quite right too !"
They were always to say this , one after the other , but they were not to say one word more , and if they disobeyed this order , all their money would disappear at once , but so long as they observed it , their pockets would always be full.
As a beginning , he at once gave them as much as they could carry , and told them to go to such and such an inn when they got to the town.
They went to it , and the innkeeper came to meet them , and asked if they wished for anything to eat ? The first replied , `` All three of us"
`` Yes ,"
said the host , `` that is what I mean"
The second said , `` For money"
`` Of course ,"
said the host.
The third said , `` And quite right too !"
`` Certainly it is right ,"
said the host.
Good meat and drink were now brought to them , and they were well waited on.
After the dinner came the payment , and the innkeeper gave the bill to the one who said , `` All three of us ,"
the second said , `` For money ,"
and the third , `` and quite right too !"
`` Indeed it is right ,"
said the host , `` all three pay , and without money I can give nothing"
They , however , paid still more than he had asked.
The lodgers , who were looking on , said , `` These people must be mad"
`` Yes , indeed they are ,"
said the host , `` they are not very wise"
So they stayed some time in the inn , and said nothing else but , `` All three of us ,"
`` For money ,"
and `` And quite right too !"
But they saw and knew all that was going on.
It so happened that a great merchant came with a large sum of money , and said , `` Sir host , take care of my money for me , here are three crazy apprentices who might steal it from me"
The host did as he was asked.
As he was carrying the trunk into his room , he felt that it was heavy with gold.
Thereupon he gave the three apprentices a lodging below , but the merchant came up-stairs into a separate apartment.
When it was midnight , and the host thought that all were asleep , he came with his wife , and they had an axe and struck the rich merchant dead ; and after they had murdered him they went to bed again.
When it was day there was a great outcry ; the merchant lay dead in bed bathed in blood.
All the guests ran at once but the host said , `` The three crazy apprentices have done this ;"
the lodgers confirmed it , and said , `` It can have been no one else"
The innkeeper , however , had them called , and said to them , `` Have you killed the merchant ?"
`` All three of us ,"
said the first , `` For money ,"
said the second ; and the third added , `` And quite right too !"
`` There now , you hear ,"
said the host , `` they confess it themselves"
They were taken to prison , therefore , and were to be tried.
When they saw that things were going so seriously , they were after all afraid , but at night the Devil came and said , `` Bear it just one day longer , and do not play away your luck , not one hair of your head shall be hurt"
The next morning they were led to the bar , and the judge said , `` Are you the murderers ?"
`` All three of us"
`` Why did you kill the merchant ?"
`` For money"
`` You wicked wretches , you have no horror of your sins ?"
`` And quite right too !"
`` They have confessed , and are still stubborn ,"
said the judge , `` lead them to death instantly"
So they were taken out , and the host had to go with them into the circle.
When they were taken hold of by the executioner 's men , and were just going to be led up to the scaffold where the headsman was standing with naked sword , a coach drawn by four blood-red chestnut horses came up suddenly , driving so fast that fire flashed from the stones , and someone made signs from the window with a white handkerchief.
Then said the headsman , `` It is a pardon coming ,"
and `` Pardon ! pardon !"
was called from the carriage also.
Then the Devil stepped out as a very noble gentleman , beautifully dressed , and said , `` You three are innocent ; you may now speak , make known what you have seen and heard"
Then said the eldest , `` We did not kill the merchant , the murderer is standing there in the circle ,"
and he pointed to the innkeeper.
`` In proof of this , go into his cellar , where many others whom he has killed are still hanging"
Then the judge sent the executioner 's men thither , and they found it was as the apprentices said , and when they had informed the judge of this , he caused the innkeeper to be led up , and his head was cut off.
Then said the Devil to the three , `` Now I have got the soul which I wanted to have , and you are free , and have money for the rest of your lives"
There was a great war , and the King had many soldiers , but gave them small pay , so small that they could not live upon it , so three of them agreed among themselves to desert.
One of them said to the others , `` If we are caught we shall be hanged on the gallows ; how shall we manage it ?"
Another said , `` Look at that great cornfield , if we were to hide ourselves there , no one could find us ; the troops are not allowed to enter it , and to-morrow they are to march away"
They crept into the corn , only the troops did not march away , but remained lying all round about it.
They stayed in the corn for two days and two nights , and were so hungry that they all but died , but if they had come out , their death would have been certain.
Then said they , `` What is the use of our deserting if we have to perish miserably here ?"
But now a fiery dragon came flying through the air , and it came down to them , and asked why they had concealed themselves there ? They answered , `` We are three soldiers who have deserted because the pay was so bad , and now we shall have to die of hunger if we stay here , or to dangle on the gallows if we go out"
`` If you will serve me for seven years ,"
said the dragon , `` I will convey you through the army so that no one shall seize you"
`` We have no choice and are compelled to accept ,"
they replied.
Then the dragon caught hold of them with his claws , and carried them away through the air over the army , and put them down again on the earth far from it ; but the dragon was no other than the person_0.
He gave them a small whip and said , `` Whip with it and crack it , and then as much gold will spring up round about as you can wish for ; then you can live like great lords , keep horses , and drive your carriages , but when the seven years have come to an end , you are my property"
Then he put before them a book which they were all three forced to sign.
`` I will , however , then set you a riddle ,"
said he , `` and if you can guess that , you shall be free , and released from my power"
Then the dragon flew away from them , and they went away with their whip , had gold in plenty , ordered themselves rich apparel , and traveled about the world.
Wherever they were they lived in pleasure and magnificence , rode on horseback , drove in carriages , ate and drank , but did nothing wicked.
The time slipped quickly away , and when the seven years were coming to an end , two of them were terribly anxious and alarmed ; but the third took the affair easily , and said , `` Brothers , fear nothing , my head is sharp enough , I shall guess the riddle"
They went out into the open country and sat down , and the two pulled sorrowful faces.
Then an aged woman came up to them who inquired why they were so sad ? `` Alas !"
said they , `` how can that concern you ? After all , you can not help us"
`` Who knows ?"
said she.
`` Confide your trouble to me"
So they told her that they had been the person_0 's servants for nearly seven years , and that he had provided them with gold as plentifully as if it had been blackberries , but that they had sold themselves to him , and were forfeited to him , if at the end of the seven years they could not guess a riddle.
The old woman said , `` If you are to be saved , one of you must go into the forest , there he will come to a fallen rock which looks like a little house , he must enter that , and then he will obtain help"
The two melancholy ones thought to themselves , `` That will still not save us ,"
and stayed where they were , but the third , the merry one , got up and walked on in the forest until he found the rock-house.
In the little house , however , a very aged woman was sitting , who was the person_0 's grandmother , and asked the soldier where he came from , and what he wanted there ? He told her everything that had happened , and as he pleased her well , she had pity on him , and said she would help him.
She lifted up a great stone which lay above a cellar , and said , `` Conceal thyself there , thou canst hear everything that is said here ; only sit still , and do not stir.
When the dragon comes , I will question him about the riddle , he tells everything to me , so listen carefully to his answer"
At twelve o'clock at night , the dragon came flying thither , and asked for his dinner.
The grandmother laid the table , and served up food and drink , so that he was pleased , and they ate and drank together.
In the course of conversation , she asked him what kind of a day he had had , and how many souls he had got ? `` Nothing went very well to-day ,"
he answered , `` but I have laid hold of three soldiers , I have them safe"
`` Indeed ! three soldiers , that 's something like , but they may escape you yet"
The person_0 said mockingly , `` They are mine ! I will set them a riddle , which they will never in this world be able to guess !"
`` What riddle is that ?"
she inquired.
`` I will tell you.
In the great North Sea lies a dead dog-fish , that shall be your roast meat , and the rib of a whale shall be your silver spoon , and a hollow old horse 's hoof shall be your wine-glass"
When the person_0 had gone to bed , the old grandmother raised up the stone , and let out the soldier.
`` Hast thou paid particular attention to everything ?"
`` Yes ,"
said he , `` I know enough , and will contrive to save myself"
Then he had to go back another way , through the window , secretly and with all speed to his companions.
He told them how the person_0 had been overreached by the old grandmother , and how he had learned the answer to the riddle from him.
Then they were all joyous , and of good cheer , and took the whip and whipped so much gold for themselves that it ran all over the ground.
When the seven years had fully gone by , the person_0 came with the book , showed the signatures , and said , `` I will take you with me to hell.
There you shall have a meal ! If you can guess what kind of roast meat you will have to eat , you shall be free and released from your bargain , and may keep the whip as well"
Then the first soldier began and said , `` In the great North Sea lies a dead dog-fish , that no doubt is the roast meat"
The person_0 was angry , and began to mutter , `` Hm ! hm ! hm !"
And asked the second , `` But what will your spoon be ?"
`` The rib of a whale , that is to be our silver spoon"
The person_0 made a wry face , again growled , `` Hm ! hm ! hm !"
and said to the third , `` And do you also know what your wine-glass is to be ?"
`` An old horse 's hoof is to be our wineglass"
Then the person_0 flew away with a loud cry , and had no more power over them , but the three kept the whip , whipped as much money for themselves with it as they wanted , and lived happily to their end"
by Brothers Grimm There was once upon a time an old goat who had seven little kids , and loved them with all the love of a mother for her children.
One day she wanted to go into the forest and fetch some food.
So she called all seven to her and said , `` Dear children , I have to go into the forest , be on your guard against the wolf ; if he come in , he will devour you all -- skin , hair , and all.
The wretch often disguises himself , but you will know him at once by his rough voice and his black feet"
The kids said , `` Dear mother , we will take good care of ourselves ; you may go away without any anxiety"
Then the old one bleated , and went on her way with an easy mind.
It was not long before some one knocked at the house-door and called , `` Open the door , dear children ; your mother is here , and has brought something back with her for each of you"
But the little kids knew that it was the wolf , by the rough voice ; `` We will not open the door ,"
cried they , `` thou art not our mother.
She has a soft , pleasant voice , but thy voice is rough ; thou art the wolf !"
Then the wolf went away to a shopkeeper and bought himself a great lump of chalk , ate this and made his voice soft with it.
The he came back , knocked at the door of the house , and cried , `` Open the door , dear children , your mother is here and has brought something back with her for each of you"
But the wolf had laid his black paws against the window , and the children saw them and cried , `` We will not open the door , our mother has not black feet like thee ; thou art the wolf"
Then the wolf ran to a baker and said , `` I have hurt my feet , rub some dough over them for me"
And when the baker had rubbed his feet over , he ran to the miller and said , `` Strew some white meal over my feet for me"
The miller thought to himself , `` The wolf wants to deceive someone ,"
and refused ; but the wolf said , `` If thou wilt not do it , I will devour thee"
Then the miller was afraid , and made his paws white for him.
Truly men are like that.
So now the wretch went for the third time to the house-door , knocked at it and said , `` Open the door for me , children , your dear little mother has come home , and has brought every one of you something back from the forest with her"
The little kids cried , `` First show us thy paws that we may know if thou art our dear little mother"
Then he put his paws in through the window , and when the kids saw that they were white , they believed that all he said was true , and opened the door.
But who should come in but the wolf ! They were terrified and wanted to hide themselves.
One sprang under the table , the second into the bed , the third into the stove , the fourth into the kitchen , the fifth into the cupboard , the sixth under the washing-bowl , and the seventh into the clock-case.
But the wolf found them all , and used no great ceremony ; one after the other he swallowed them down his throat.
The youngest , who was in the clock-case , was the only one he did not find.
When the wolf had satisfied his appetite he took himself off , laid himself down under a tree in the green meadow outside , and began to sleep.
Soon afterwards the old goat came home again from the forest.
Ah ! What a sight she saw there ! The house-door stood wide open.
The table , chairs , and benches were thrown down , the washing-bowl lay broken to pieces , and the quilts and pillows were pulled off the bed.
She sought her children , but they were nowhere to be found.
She called them one after another by name , but no one answered.
At last , when she came to the youngest , a soft voice cried , `` Dear mother , I am in the clock-case"
She took the kid out , and it told her that the wolf had come and had eaten all the others.
Then you may imagine how she wept over her poor children.
At length in her grief she went out , and the youngest kid ran with her.
When they came to the meadow , there lay the wolf by the tree and snored so loud that the branches shook.
She looked at him on every side and saw that something was moving and struggling in his gorged belly.
`` Ah , heavens ,"
said she , `` is it possible that my poor children whom he has swallowed down for his supper , can be still alive ?"
Then the kid had to run home and fetch scissors , and a needle and thread , and the goat cut open the monster 's stomach , and hardly had she make one cut , than one little kid thrust its head out , and when she cut farther , all six sprang out one after another , and were all still alive , and had suffered no injury whatever , for in his greediness the monster had swallowed them down whole.
What rejoicing there was ! They embraced their dear mother , and jumped like a sailor at his wedding.
The mother , however , said , `` Now go and look for some big stones , and we will fill the wicked beast 's stomach with them while he is still asleep"
Then the seven kids dragged the stones thither with all speed , and put as many of them into his stomach as they could get in ; and the mother sewed him up again in the greatest haste , so that he was not aware of anything and never once stirred.
When the wolf at length had had his sleep out , he got on his legs , and as the stones in his stomach made him very thirsty , he wanted to go to a well to drink.
But when he began to walk and move about , the stones in his stomach knocked against each other and rattled.
Then cried he , `` What rumbles and tumbles Against my poor bones ? I thought ` t was six kids , But it 's naught but big stones"
And when he got to the well and stooped over the water and was just about to drink , the heavy stones made him fall in , and there was no help , but he had to drown miserably.
When the seven kids saw that , they came running to the spot and cried aloud , `` The wolf is dead ! The wolf is dead !"
and danced for joy round about the well with their mother"
A certain tailor who was great at boasting but ill at doing , took it into his head to go abroad for a while , and look about the world.
As soon as he could manage it , he left his workshop , and wandered on his way , over hill and dale , sometimes hither , sometimes thither , but ever on and on.
Once when he was out he perceived in the blue distance a steep hill , and behind it a tower reaching to the clouds , which rose up out of a wild dark forest.
`` Thunder and lightning ,"
cried the tailor , `` what is that ?"
and as he was strongly goaded by curiosity , he went boldly towards it.
But what made the tailor open his eyes and mouth when he came near it , was to see that the tower had legs , and leapt in one bound over the steep hill , and was now standing as an all powerful giant before him.
`` What dost thou want here , thou tiny fly 's leg ?"
cried the giant , with a voice as if it were thundering on every side.
The tailor whimpered , `` I want just to look about and see if I can earn a bit of bread for myself , in this forest"
`` If that is what thou art after ,"
said the giant , `` thou mayst have a place with me"
`` If it must be , why not ? What wages shall I receive ?"
`` Thou shalt hear what wages thou shalt have.
Every year three hundred and sixty-five days , and when it is leap-year , one more into the bargain.
Does that suit thee ?"
`` All right ,"
replied the tailor , and thought , in his own mind , `` a man must cut his coat according to his cloth ; I will try to get away as fast as I can"
On this the giant said to him , `` Go , little ragamuffin , and fetch me a jug of water"
`` Had I not better bring the well itself at once , and the spring too ?"
asked the boaster , and went with the pitcher to the water.
`` What ! the well and the spring too ,"
growled the giant in his beard , for he was rather clownish and stupid , and began to be afraid.
`` That knave is not a fool , he has a wizard in his body.
Be on thy guard , old Hans , this is no serving-man for thee"
When the tailor had brought the water , the giant bade him go into the forest , and cut a couple of blocks of wood and bring them back.
`` Why not the whole forest , at once , with one stroke.
The whole forest , young and old , with all that is there , both rough and smooth ?"
asked the little tailor , and went to cut the wood.
`` What ! the whole forest , young and old , with all that is there , both rough and smooth , and the well and its spring too ,"
growled the credulous giant in his beard , and was still more terrified.
`` The knave can do much more than bake apples , and has a wizard in his body.
Be on thy guard , old Hans , this is no serving-man for thee !"
When the tailor had brought the wood , the giant commanded him to shoot two or three wild boars for supper.
`` Why not rather a thousand at one shot , and bring them all here ?"
inquired the ostentatious tailor.
`` What !"
cried the timid giant in great terror ; `` Let well alone to-night , and lie down to rest"
The giant was so terribly alarmed that he could not close an eye all night long for thinking what would be the best way to get rid of this accursed sorcerer of a servant.
Time brings counsel.
Next morning the giant and the tailor went to a marsh , round which stood a number of willow-trees.
Then said the giant , `` Hark thee , tailor , seat thyself on one of the willow-branches , I long of all things to see if thou art big enough to bend it down"
All at once the tailor was sitting on it , holding his breath , and making himself so heavy that the bough bent down.
When , however , he was compelled to draw breath , it hurried him -LRB- for unfortunately he had not put his goose in his pocket -RRB- so high into the air that he never was seen again , and this to the great delight of the giant.
If the tailor has not fallen down again , he must be hovering about in the air"
One day an old man and his wife were sitting in front of a miserable house resting a while from their work.
Suddenly a splendid carriage with four black horses came driving up , and a richly-dressed man descended from it.
The peasant stood up , went to the great man , and asked what he wanted , and in what way he could be useful to him ? The stranger stretched out his hand to the old man , and said , `` I want nothing but to enjoy for once a country dish ; cook me some potatoes , in the way you always have them , and then I will sit down at your table and eat them with pleasure"
The peasant smiled and said , `` You are a count or a prince , or perhaps even a duke ; noble gentlemen often have such fancies , but you shall have your wish"
The wife went into the kitchen , and began to wash and rub the potatoes , and to make them into balls , as they are eaten by the country-folks.
Whilst she was busy with this work , the peasant said to the stranger , `` Come into my garden with me for a while , I have still something to do there"
He had dug some holes in the garden , and now wanted to plant some trees in them.
`` Have you no children ,"
asked the stranger , `` who could help you with your work ?"
`` No ,"
answered the peasant , `` I had a son , it is true , but it is long since he went out into the world.
He was a ne'er - do-well ; sharp , and knowing , but he would learn nothing and was full of bad tricks , at last he ran away from me , and since then I have heard nothing of him"
The old man took a young tree , put it in a hole , drove in a post beside it , and when he had shovelled in some earth and had trampled it firmly down , he tied the stem of the tree above , below , and in the middle , fast to the post by a rope of straw.
`` But tell me ,"
said the stranger , `` why you do n't tie that crooked knotted tree , which is lying in the corner there , bent down almost to the ground , to a post also that it may grow straight , as well as these ?"
The old man smiled and said , `` Sir , you speak according to your knowledge , it is easy to see that you are not familiar with gardening.
That tree there is old , and mis-shapen , no one can make it straight now.
Trees must be trained while they are young"
`` That is how it was with your son ,"
said the stranger , `` if you had trained him while he was still young , he would not have run away ; now he too must have grown hard and mis-shapen"
`` Truly it is a long time since he went away ,"
replied the old man , `` he must have changed"
`` Would you know him again if he were to come to you ?"
asked the stranger.
`` Hardly by his face ,"
replied the peasant , `` but he has a mark about him , a birth-mark on his shoulder , that looks like a bean"
When he had said that the stranger pulled off his coat , bared his shoulder , and showed the peasant the bean.
`` Good God !"
cried the old man , `` Thou art really my son !"
and love for his child stirred in his heart.
`` But ,"
he added , `` how canst thou be my son , thou hast become a great lord and livest in wealth and luxury ? How hast thou contrived to do that ?"
`` Ah , father ,"
answered the son , `` the young tree was bound to no post and has grown crooked , now it is too old , it will never be straight again.
How have I got all that ? I have become a thief , but do not be alarmed , I am a master-thief.
For me there are neither locks nor bolts , whatsoever I desire is mine.
Do not imagine that I steal like a common thief , I only take some of the superfluity of the rich.
Poor people are safe , I would rather give to them than take anything from them.
It is the same with anything which I can have without trouble , cunning and dexterity I never touch it"
`` Alas , my son ,"
said the father , `` it still does not please me , a thief is still a thief , I tell thee it will end badly"
He took him to his mother , and when she heard that was her son , she wept for joy , but when he told her that he had become a master-thief , two streams flowed down over her face.
At length she said , `` Even if he has become a thief , he is still my son , and my eyes have beheld him once more"
They sat down to table , and once again he ate with his parents the wretched food which he had not eaten for so long.
The father said , `` If our Lord , the count up there in the castle , learns who thou art , and what trade thou followest , he will not take thee in his arms and cradle thee in them as he did when he held thee at the font , but will cause thee to swing from a halter"
`` Be easy , father , he will do me no harm , for I understand my trade.
I will go to him myself this very day"
When evening drew near , the master-thief seated himself in his carriage , and drove to the castle.
The count received him civilly , for he took him for a distinguished man.
When , however , the stranger made himself known , the count turned pale and was quite silent for some time.
At length he said , `` Thou art my godson , and on that account mercy shall take the place of justice , and I will deal leniently with thee.
Since thou pridest thyself on being a master-thief , I will put thy art to the proof , but if thou dost not stand the test , thou must marry the rope-maker 's daughter , and the croaking of the raven must be thy music on the occasion"
`` Lord count ,"
answered the master-thief , `` Think of three things , as difficult as you like , and if I do not perform your tasks , do with me what you will"
The count reflected for some minutes , and then said , `` Well , then , in the first place , thou shalt steal the horse I keep for my own riding , out of the stable ; in the next , thou shalt steal the sheet from beneath the bodies of my wife and myself when we are asleep , without our observing it , and the wedding-ring of my wife as well ; thirdly and lastly , thou shalt steal away out of the church , the parson and clerk.
Mark what I am saying , for thy life depends on it"
The master-thief went to the nearest town ; there he bought the clothes of an old peasant woman , and put them on.
Then he stained his face brown , and painted wrinkles on it as well , so that no one could have recognized him.
Then he filled a small cask with old Hungary wine in which was mixed a powerful sleeping-drink.
He put the cask in a basket , which he took on his back , and walked with slow and tottering steps to the count 's castle.
It was already dark when he arrived.
He sat down on a stone in the court-yard and began to cough , like an asthmatic old woman , and to rub his hands as if he were cold.
In front of the door of the stable some soldiers were lying round a fire ; one of them observed the woman , and called out to her , `` Come nearer , old mother , and warm thyself beside us.
After all , thou hast no bed for the night , and must take one where thou canst find it"
The old woman tottered up to them , begged them to lift the basket from her back , and sat down beside them at the fire.
`` What hast thou got in thy little cask , old lady ?"
asked one.
`` A good mouthful of wine ,"
she answered.
`` I live by trade , for money and fair words I am quite ready to let you have a glass"
`` Let us have it here , then ,"
said the soldier , and when he had tasted one glass he said , `` When wine is good , I like another glass ,"
and had another poured out for himself , and the rest followed his example.
`` Hallo , comrades ,"
cried one of them to those who were in the stable , `` here is an old goody who has wine that is as old as herself ; take a draught , it will warm your stomachs far better than our fire"
The old woman carried her cask into the stable.
One of the soldiers had seated himself on the saddled riding-horse , another held its bridle in his hand , a third had laid hold of its tail.
She poured out as much as they wanted until the spring ran dry.
It was not long before the bridle fell from the hand of the one , and he fell down and began to snore , the other left hold of the tail , lay down and snored still louder.
The one who was sitting in the saddle , did remain sitting , but bent his head almost down to the horse 's neck , and slept and blew with his mouth like the bellows of a forge.
The soldiers outside had already been asleep for a long time , and were lying on the ground motionless , as if dead.
When the master-thief saw that he had succeeded , he gave the first a rope in his hand instead of the bridle , and the other who had been holding the tail , a wisp of straw , but what was he to do with the one who was sitting on the horse 's back ? He did not want to throw him down , for he might have awakened and have uttered a cry.
He had a good idea , he unbuckled the girths of the saddle , tied a couple of ropes which were hanging to a ring on the wall fast to the saddle , and drew the sleeping rider up into the air on it , then he twisted the rope round the posts , and made it fast.
He soon unloosed the horse from the chain , but if he had ridden over the stony pavement of the yard they would have heard the noise in the castle.
So he wrapped the horse 's hoofs in old rags , led him carefully out , leapt upon him , and galloped off.
When day broke , the master galloped to the castle on the stolen horse.
The count had just got up , and was looking out of the window.
`` Good morning , Sir Count ,"
he cried to him , `` here is the horse , which I have got safely out of the stable ! Just look , how beautifully your soldiers are lying there sleeping ; and if you will but go into the stable , you will see how comfortable your watchers have made it for themselves"
The count could not help laughing , then he said , `` For once thou hast succeeded , but things wo n't go so well the second time , and I warn thee that if thou comest before me as a thief , I will handle thee as I would a thief"
When the countess went to bed that night , she closed her hand with the wedding-ring tightly together , and the count said , `` All the doors are locked and bolted , I will keep awake and wait for the thief , but if he gets in by the window , I will shoot him"
The master-thief , however , went in the dark to the gallows , cut a poor sinner who was hanging there down from the halter , and carried him on his back to the castle.
Then he set a ladder up to the bedroom , put the dead body on his shoulders , and began to climb up.
When he had got so high that the head of the dead man showed at the window , the count , who was watching in his bed , fired a pistol at him , and immediately the master let the poor sinner fall down , and hid himself in one corner.
The night was sufficiently lighted by the moon , for the master to see distinctly how the count got out of the window on to the ladder , came down , carried the dead body into the garden , and began to dig a hole in which to lay it.
`` Now ,"
thought the thief , `` the favourable moment has come ,"
stole nimbly out of his corner , and climbed up the ladder straight into the countess 's bedroom.
`` Dear wife ,"
he began in the count 's voice , `` the thief is dead , but , after all , he is my godson , and has been more of a scape-grace than a villain.
I will not put him to open shame ; besides , I am sorry for the parents.
I will bury him myself before daybreak , in the garden that the thing may not be known , so give me the sheet , I will wrap up the body in it , and bury him as a dog burries things by scratching"
The countess gave him the sheet.
`` I tell you what ,"
continued the thief , `` I have a fit of magnanimity on me , give me the ring too , -- the unhappy man risked his life for it , so he may take it with him into his grave"
She would not gainsay the count , and although she did it unwillingly she drew the ring from her finger , and gave it to him.
The thief made off with both these things , and reached home safely before the count in the garden had finished his work of burying.
What a long face the count did pull when the master came next morning , and brought him the sheet and the ring.
`` Art thou a wizard ?"
said he , `` Who has fetched thee out of the grave in which I myself laid thee , and brought thee to life again ?"
`` You did not bury me ,"
said the thief , `` but the poor sinner on the gallows ,"
and he told him exactly how everything had happened , and the count was forced to own to him that he was a clever , crafty thief.
`` But thou hast not reached the end yet ,"
he added , `` thou hast still to perform the third task , and if thou dost not succeed in that , all is of no use"
The master smiled and returned no answer.
When night had fallen he went with a long sack on his back , a bundle under his arms , and a lantern in his hand to the village-church.
In the sack he had some crabs , and in the bundle short wax-candles.
He sat down in the churchyard , took out a crab , and stuck a wax-candle on his back.
Then he lighted the little light , put the crab on the ground , and let it creep about.
He took a second out of the sack , and treated it in the same way , and so on until the last was out of the sack.
Hereupon he put on a long black garment that looked like a monk 's cowl , and stuck a gray beard on his chin.
When at last he was quite unrecognizable , he took the sack in which the crabs had been , went into the church , and ascended the pulpit.
The clock in the tower was just striking twelve ; when the last stroke had sounded , he cried with a loud and piercing voice , `` Hearken , sinful men , the end of all things has come ! The last day is at hand ! Hearken ! Hearken ! Whosoever wishes to go to heaven with me must creep into the sack.
I am Peter , who opens and shuts the gate of heaven.
Behold how the dead outside there in the churchyard , are wandering about collecting their bones.
Come , come , and creep into the sack ; the world is about to be destroyed !"
The cry echoed through the whole village.
The parson and clerk who lived nearest to the church , heard it first , and when they saw the lights which were moving about the churchyard , they observed that something unusual was going on , and went into the church.
They listened to the sermon for a while , and then the clerk nudged the parson and said , `` It would not be amiss if we were to use the opportunity together , and before the dawning of the last day , find an easy way of getting to heaven"
`` To tell the truth ,"
answered the parson , `` that is what I myself have been thinking , so if you are inclined , we will set out on our way"
`` Yes ,"
answered the clerk , `` but you , the pastor , have the precedence , I will follow"
So the parson went first , and ascended the pulpit where the master opened his sack.
The parson crept in first , and then the clerk.
The master immediately tied up the sack tightly , seized it by the middle , and dragged it down the pulpit-steps , and whenever the heads of the two fools bumped against the steps , he cried , `` We are going over the mountains"
Then he drew them through the village in the same way , and when they were passing through puddles , he cried , `` Now we are going through wet clouds"
And when at last he was dragging them up the steps of the castle , he cried , `` Now we are on the steps of heaven , and will soon be in the outer court"
When he had got to the top , he pushed the sack into the pigeon-house , and when the pigeons fluttered about , he said , `` Hark how glad the angels are , and how they are flapping their wings !"
Then he bolted the door upon them , and went away.
Next morning he went to the count , and told him that he had performed the third task also , and had carried the parson and clerk out of the church.
`` Where hast thou left them ?"
asked the lord.
`` They are lying upstairs in a sack in the pigeon-house , and imagine that they are in heaven"
The count went up himself , and convinced himself that the master had told the truth.
When he had delivered the parson and clerk from their captivity , he said , `` Thou art an arch-thief , and hast won thy wager.
For once thou escapest with a whole skin , but see that thou leavest my land , for if ever thou settest foot on it again , thou may ` st count on thy elevation to the gallows"
The arch-thief took leave of his parents , once more went forth into the wide world , and no one has ever heard of him since"
Long , long ago in Japan there lived an old man and his wife.
The old man was a good , kind-hearted , hard-working old fellow , but his wife was a regular cross-patch , who spoiled the happiness of her home by her scolding tongue.
She was always grumbling about something from morning to night.
The old man had for a long time ceased to take any notice of her crossness.
He was out most of the day at work in the fields , and as he had no child , for his amusement when he came home , he kept a tame sparrow.
He loved the little bird just as much as if she had been his child.
When he came back at night after his hard day 's work in the open air it was his only pleasure to pet the sparrow , to talk to her and to teach her little tricks , which she learned very quickly.
The old man would open her cage and let her fly about the room , and they would play together.
Then when supper-time came , he always saved some tit - bits from his meal with which to feed his little bird.
Now one day the old man went out to chop wood in the forest , and the old woman stopped at home to wash clothes.
The day before , she had made some starch , and now when she came to look for it , it was all gone ; the bowl which she had filled full yesterday was quite empty.
While she was wondering who could have used or stolen the starch , down flew the pet sparrow , and bowing her little feathered head -- a trick which she had been taught by her master -- the pretty bird chirped and said : `` It is I who have taken the starch.
I thought it was some food put out for me in that basin , and I ate it all.
If I have made a mistake I beg you to forgive me ! tweet , tweet , tweet !"
You see from this that the sparrow was a truthful bird , and the old woman ought to have been willing to forgive her at once when she asked her pardon so nicely.
But not so.
The old woman had never loved the sparrow , and had often quarreled with her husband for keeping what she called a dirty bird about the house , saying that it only made extra work for her.
Now she was only too delighted to have some cause of complaint against the pet.
She scolded and even cursed the poor little bird for her bad behavior , and not content with using these harsh , unfeeling words , in a fit of rage she seized the sparrow -- who all this time had spread out her wings and bowed her head before the old woman , to show how sorry she was -- and fetched the scissors and cut off the poor little bird 's tongue.
`` I suppose you took my starch with that tongue ! Now you may see what it is like to go without it ! `` And with these dreadful words she drove the bird away , not caring in the least what might happen to it and without the smallest pity for its suffering , so unkind was she ! The old woman , after she had driven the sparrow away , made some more rice-paste , grumbling all the time at the trouble , and after starching all her clothes , spread the things on boards to dry in the sun , instead of ironing them as they do in England.
In the evening the old man came home.
As usual , on the way back he looked forward to the time when he should reach his gate and see his pet come flying and chirping to meet him , ruffling out her feathers to show her joy , and at last coming to rest on his shoulder.
But to - night the old man was very disappointed , for not even the shadow of his dear sparrow was to be seen.
He quickened his steps , hastily drew off his straw sandals , and stepped on to the veranda.
Still no sparrow was to be seen.
He now felt sure that his wife , in one of her cross tempers , had shut the sparrow up in its cage.
So he called her and said anxiously : `` Where is Suzume San -LRB- Miss person_0 -RRB- today ?"
The old woman pretended not to know at first , and answered : `` Your sparrow ? I am sure I do n't know.
Now I come to think of it , I have n't seen her all the afternoon.
I should n't wonder if the un - grateful bird had flown away and left you after all your petting !"
But at last , when the old man gave her no peace , but asked her again and again , insisting that she must know what had happened to his pet , she confessed all.
She told him crossly how the sparrow had eaten the rice-paste she had specially made for starching her clothes , and how when the sparrow had confessed to what she had done , in great anger she had taken her scissors and cut out her tongue , and how finally she had driven the bird away and forbidden her to return to the house again.
Then the old woman showed her husband the sparrow 's tongue , saying : `` Here is the tongue I cut off ! Horrid little bird , why did it eat all my starch ?"
`` How could you be so cruel ? Oh ! how could you so cruel ?"
was all that the old man could answer.
He was too kind-hearted to punish his be shrew of a wife , but he was terribly distressed at what had happened to his poor little sparrow.
`` What a dreadful misfortune for my poor Suzume San to lose her tongue !"
he said to himself.
`` She wo n't be able to chirp any more , and surely the pain of the cutting of it out in that rough way must have made her ill ! Is there nothing to be done ?"
The old man shed many tears after his cross wife had gone to sleep.
While he wiped away the tears with the sleeve of his cotton robe , a bright thought comforted him : he would go and look for the sparrow on the morrow.
Having decided this he was able to go to sleep at last.
The next morning he rose early , as soon as ever the day broke , and snatching a hasty breakfast , started out over the hills and through the woods , stopping at every clump of bamboos to cry : `` Where , oh where does my tongue-cut sparrow stay ? Where , oh where , does my tongue-cut sparrow stay !"
He never stopped to rest for his noonday meal , and it was far on in the afternoon when he found himself near a large bamboo wood.
Bamboo groves are the favorite haunts of sparrows , and there sure enough at the edge of the wood he saw his own dear sparrow waiting to welcome him.
He could hardly believe his eyes for joy , and ran forward quickly to greet her.
She bowed her little head and went through a number of the tricks her master had taught her , to show her pleasure at seeing her old friend again , and , wonderful to relate , she could talk as of old.
The old man told her how sorry he was for all that had happened , and inquired after her tongue , wondering how she could speak so well without it.
Then the sparrow opened her beak and showed him that a new tongue had grown in place of the old one , and begged him not to think any more about the past , for she was quite well now.
Then the old man knew that his sparrow was a fairy , and no common bird.
It would be difficult to exaggerate the old man 's rejoicing now.
He forgot all his troubles , he forgot even how tired he was , for he had found his lost sparrow , and instead of being ill and without a tongue as he had feared and expected to find her , she was well and happy and with a new tongue , and without a sign of the ill-treatment she had received from his wife.
And above all she was a fairy.
The sparrow asked him to follow her , and flying before him she led him to a beautiful house in the heart of the bamboo grove.
The old man was utterly astonished when he entered the house to find what a beautiful place it was.
It was built of the whitest wood , the soft cream-colored mats which took the place of carpets were the finest he had ever seen , and the cushions that the sparrow brought out for him to sit on were made of the finest silk and crape.
Beautiful vases and lacquer boxes adorned the tokonoma -LRB- Footnote : An alcove where precious objects are displayed.
-RRB- of every room.
The sparrow led the old man to the place of honor , and then , taking her place at a humble distance , she thanked him with many polite bows for all the kindness he had shown her for many long years.
Then the person_1 , as we will now call her , introduced all her family to the old man.
This done , her daughters , robed in dainty crape gowns , brought in on beautiful old-fashioned trays a feast of all kinds of delicious foods , till the old man began to think he must be dreaming.
In the middle of the dinner some of the sparrow 's daughters performed a wonderful dance , called the `` suzume-odori"
or the `` person_0 's dance ,"
to amuse the guest.
Never had the old man enjoyed himself so much.
The hours flew by too quickly in this lovely spot , with all these fairy sparrows to wait upon him and to feast him and to dance before him.
But the night came on and the darkness reminded him that he had a long way to go and must think about taking his leave and return home.
He thanked his kind hostess for her splendid entertainment , and begged her for his sake to forget all she had suffered at the hands of his cross old wife.
He told the person_1 that it was a great comfort and happiness to him to find her in such a beautiful home and to know that she wanted for nothing.
It was his anxiety to know how she fared and what had really happened to her that had led him to seek her.
Now he knew that all was well he could return home with a light heart.
If ever she wanted him for anything she had only to send for him and he would come at once.
The person_1 begged him to stay and rest several days and enjoy the change , but the old man said he must return to his old wife -- who would probably be cross at his not coming home at the usual time -- and to his work , and there-fore , much as he wished to do so , he could not accept her kind invitation.
But now that he knew where the person_1 lived he would come to see her whenever he had the time.
When the person_1 saw that she could not persuade the old man to stay longer , she gave an order to some of her servants , and they at once brought in two boxes , one large and the other small.
These were placed before the old man , and the person_1 asked him to choose whichever he liked for a present , which she wished to give him.
The old man could not refuse this kind proposal , and he chose the smaller box , saying : `` I am now too old and feeble to carry the big and heavy box.
As you are so kind as to say that I may take whichever I like , I will choose the small one , which will be easier for me to carry"
Then the sparrows all helped him put it on his back and went to the gate to see him off , bidding him good-by with many bows and entreating him to come again whenever he had the time.
Thus the old man and his pet sparrow separated quite happily , the sparrow showing not the least ill-will for all the unkindness she had suffered at the hands of the old wife.
Indeed , she only felt sorrow for the old man who had to put up with it all his life.
When the old man reached home he found his wife even crosser than usual , for it was late on in the night and she had been waiting up for him for a long time `` Where have you been all this time ?"
she asked in a big voice.
`` Why do you come back so late ?"
The old man tried to pacify her by showing her the box of presents he had brought back with him , and then he told her of all that had happened to him , and how wonderfully he had been entertained at the sparrow 's house.
`` Now let us see what is in the box ,"
said the old man , not giving her time to grumble again.
`` You must help me open it"
And they both sat down before the box and opened it.
To their utter astonishment they found the box filled to the brim with gold and silver coins and many other precious things.
The mats of their little cottage fairly glittered as they took out the things one by one and put them down and handled them over and over again.
The old man was overjoyed at the sight of the riches that were now his.
Beyond his brightest expectations was the sparrow 's gift , which would enable him to give up work and live in ease and comfort the rest of his days.
He said : `` Thanks to my good little sparrow ! Thanks to my good little sparrow !"
many times.
But the old woman , after the first moments of surprise and satisfaction at the sight of the gold and silver were over , could not suppress the greed of her wicked nature.
She now began to reproach the old man for not having brought home the big box of presents , for in the innocence of his heart he had told her how he had refused the large box of presents which the sparrows had offered him , preferring the smaller one because it was light and easy to carry home.
`` You silly old man ,"
said she , `` Why did you not bring the large box ? Just think what we have lost.
We might have had twice as much silver and gold as this.
You are certainly an old fool !"
she screamed , and then went to bed as angry as she could be.
The old man now wished that he had said nothing about the big box , but it was too late ; the greedy old woman , not contented with the good luck which had so unexpectedly befallen them and which she so little deserved , made up her mind , if possible , to get more.
Early the next morning she got up and made the old man describe the way to the sparrow 's house.
When he saw what was in her mind he tried to keep her from going , but it was useless.
She would not listen to one word he said.
It is strange that the old woman did not feel ashamed of going to see the sparrow after the cruel way she had treated her in cutting off her tongue in a fit of rage.
But her greed to get the big box made her forget everything else.
It did not even enter her thoughts that the sparrows might be angry with her -- as , indeed , they were -- and might punish her for what she had done.
Ever since the person_1 had returned home in the sad plight in which they had first found her , weeping and bleeding from the mouth , her whole family and relations had done little else but speak of the cruelty of the old woman.
`` How could she ,"
they asked each other , `` inflict such a heavy punishment for such a trifling offense as that of eating some rice-paste by mistake ?"
They all loved the old man who was so kind and good and patient under all his troubles , but the old woman they hated , and they determined , if ever they had the chance , to punish her as she deserved.
They had not long to wait.
After walking for some hours the old woman had at last found the bamboo grove which she had made her husband carefully describe , and now she stood before it crying out : `` Where is the tongue-cut sparrow 's house ? Where is the tongue-cut sparrow 's house ?"
At last she saw the eaves of the house peeping out from amongst the bamboo foliage.
She hastened to the door and knocked loudly.
When the servants told the person_1 that her old mistress was at the door asking to see her , she was somewhat surprised at the unexpected visit , after all that had taken place , and she wondered not a little at the boldness of the old woman in venturing to come to the house.
The person_1 , however , was a polite bird , and so she went out to greet the old woman , remembering that she had once been her mistress.
The old woman intended , however , to waste no time in words , she went right to the point , without the least shame , and said : `` You need not trouble to entertain me as you did my old man.
I have come myself to get the box which he so stupidly left behind.
I shall soon take my leave if you will give me the big box -- that is all I want !"
The person_1 at once consented , and told her servants to bring out the big box.
The old woman eagerly seized it and hoisted it on her back , and without even stopping to thank the person_1 began to hurry homewards.
The box was so heavy that she could not walk fast , much less run , as she would have liked to do , so anxious was she to get home and see what was inside the box , but she had often to sit down and rest herself by the way.
While she was staggering along under the heavy load , her desire to open the box became too great to be resisted.
She could wait no longer , for she supposed this big box to be full of gold and silver and precious jewels like the small one her husband had received.
At last this greedy and selfish old woman put down the box by the wayside and opened it carefully , expecting to gloat her eyes on a mine of wealth.
What she saw , however , so terrified her that she nearly lost her senses.
As soon as she lifted the lid , a number of horrible and frightful looking demons bounced out of the box and surrounded her as if they intended to kill her.
Not even in nightmares had she ever seen such horrible creatures as her much - coveted box contained.
A demon with one huge eye right in the middle of its forehead came and glared at her , monsters with gaping mouths looked as if they would devour her , a huge snake coiled and hissed about her , and a big frog hopped and croaked towards her.
The old woman had never been so frightened in her life , and ran from the spot as fast as her quaking legs would carry her , glad to escape alive.
When she reached home she fell to the floor and told her husband with tears all that had happened to her , and how she had been nearly killed by the demons in the box.
Then she began to blame the sparrow , but the old man stopped her at once , saying : `` Do n't blame the sparrow , it is your wickedness which has at last met with its reward.
I only hope this may be a lesson to you in the future !"
The old woman said nothing more , and from that day she repented of her cross , unkind ways , and by degrees became a good old woman , so that her husband hardly knew her to be the same person , and they spent their last days together happily , free from want or care , spending carefully the treasure the old man had received from his pet , the tongue-cut sparrow"
The mayor stood at the open window.
His shirt-frill was very fine , and so were his ruffles ; he had a breast-pin stuck in his frill , and was uncommonly smooth-shaven -- all his own work ; certainly he had given himself a slight cut , but he had stuck a bit of newspaper on the place.
`` Hark ` ee , youngster !"
he cried.
The youngster in question was no other than the son of the poor washerwoman , who was just going past the house ; and he pulled off his cap respectfully.
The peak of the said cap was broken in the middle , for the cap was arranged so that it could be rolled up and crammed into his pocket.
In his poor , but clean and well-mended attire , with heavy wooden shoes on his feet , the boy stood there , as humble and abashed as if he stood opposite the king himself.
`` You 're a good boy ,"
said Mr.
Mayor.
`` You 're a civil boy.
I suppose your mother is rinsing clothes down yonder in the river ? I suppose you are to carry that thing to your mother that you have in your pocket ? That 's a bad affair with your mother.
How much have you got in it ?"
`` Half a quartern ,"
stammered the boy , in a frightened voice.
`` And this morning she had just as much ,"
the mayor continued.
`` No ,"
replied the boy , `` it was yesterday"
`` Two halves make a whole.
She 's good for nothing ! It 's a sad thing with that kind of people ! Tell your mother that she ought to be ashamed of herself ; and mind you do n't become a drunkard -- but you will become one , though.
Poor child -- there , go !"
Accordingly the boy went on his way.
He kept his cap in his hand , and the wind played with his yellow hair , so that great locks of it stood up straight.
He turned down by the street corner , into the little lane that led to the river , where his mother stood by the washing bench , beating the heavy linen with the mallet.
The water rolled quickly along , for the flood-gates at the mill had been drawn up , and the sheets were caught by the stream , and threatened to overturn the bench.
The washerwoman was obliged to lean against the bench , to support it.
`` I was very nearly sailing away ,"
she said.
`` It is a good thing that you are come , for I have need to recruit my strength a little.
For six hours I 've been standing in the water.
Have you brought anything for me ?"
The boy produced the bottle , and the mother put it to her mouth , and took a little.
`` Ah , how that revives one !"
she said : `` how it warms ! It is as good as a hot meal , and not so dear.
And you , my boy ! you look quite pale.
You are shivering in your thin clothes -- to be sure it is autumn.
Ugh ! how cold the water is ! I hope I shall not be ill.
.
But no , I shall not be that ! Give me a little more , and you may have a sip too , but only a little sip , for you must not accustom yourself to it , my poor dear child !"
And she stepped up to the bridge on which the boy stood , and came ashore.
The water dripped from the straw matting she had wound round her , and from her gown.
`` I work and toil as much as ever I can ,"
she said , `` but I do it willingly , if I can only manage to bring you up honestly and well , my boy"
As she spoke , a somewhat older woman came towards them.
She was poor enough to behold , lame of one leg , and with a large false curl hanging down over one of her eyes , which was a blind one.
The curl was intended to cover the eye , but it only made the defect more striking.
This was a friend of the laundress.
She was called among the neighbors , `` Lame person_1 with the curl"
`` Oh , you poor thing ! How you work , standing there in the water !"
cried the visitor.
`` You really require something to warm you ; and yet malicious folks cry out about the few drops you take !"
And in a few minutes ' time the mayor 's late speech was reported to the laundress ; for person_1 had heard it all , and she had been angry that a man could speak as he had done to a woman 's own child , about the few drops the mother took : and she was the more angry , because the mayor on that very day was giving a great feast , at which wine was drunk by the bottle -- good wine , strong wine.
`` A good many will take more than they need -- but that 's not called drinking.
_ They _ are good ; but _ you _ are good for nothing !"
cried person_1 , indignantly.
`` Ah , so he spoke to you , my child ?"
said the washerwoman ; and her lips trembled as she spoke.
`` So he says you have a mother who is good for nothing ? Well , perhaps he 's right , but he should not have said it to the child.
Still , I have had much misfortune from that house"
`` You were in service there when the mayor 's parents were alive , and lived in that house.
That is many years ago : many bushels of salt have been eaten since then , and we may well be thirsty ;"
and person_1 smiled.
`` The mayor has a great dinner party to-day.
The guests were to have been put off , but it was too late , and the dinner was already cooked.
The footman told me about it.
A letter came a little while ago , to say that the younger brother had died in Copenhagen"
`` Died !"
repeated the laundress -- and she became pale as death.
`` Yes , certainly ,"
said person_1.
`` Do you take that so much to heart ? Well , you must have known him years ago , when you were in service in the house"
`` Is he dead ? He was such a good , worthy man ! There are not many like him"
And the tears rolled down her cheeks.
`` Good heavens ! everything is whirling around me -- it was too much for me.
I feel quite ill"
And she leaned against the plank.
`` Good heavens , you are ill indeed !"
exclaimed the other woman.
`` Come , come , it will pass over presently.
But no , you really look seriously ill.
.
The best thing will be for me to lead you home"
`` But my linen yonder --"
`` I will take care of that.
Come , give me your arm.
The boy can stay here and take care of it , and I 'll come back and finish the washing ; that 's only a trifle"
The laundress 's limbs shook under her.
`` I have stood too long in the cold water ,"
she said faintly , `` and I have eaten and drunk nothing since this morning.
The fever is in my bones.
O kind person_0 , help me to get home ! My poor child !"
and she burst into tears.
The boy wept too , and soon he was sitting alone by the river , beside the damp linen.
The two women could make only slow progress.
The laundress dragged her weary limbs along , and tottered through the lane and round the corner into the street where stood the house of the mayor ; and just in front of his mansion she sank down on the pavement.
Many people assembled round her , and Lame person_1 ran into the house to get help.
The mayor and his guests came to the window.
`` That 's the washerwoman !"
he said.
`` She has taken a glass too much.
She is good for nothing.
It 's a pity for the pretty son she has.
I really like the child very well ; but the mother is good for nothing"
Presently the laundress came to herself , and they led her into her poor dwelling , and put her to bed.
Kind person_1 heated a mug of beer for her , with butter and sugar , which she considered the best medicine ; and then she hastened to the river , and rinsed the linen -- badly enough , though her will was good.
Strictly speaking , she drew it ashore , wet as it was , and laid it in a basket.
Towards evening she was sitting in the poor little room with the laundress.
The mayor 's cook had given her some roasted potatoes and a fine fat piece of ham , for the sick woman , and person_1 and the boy discussed these viands while the patient enjoyed the smell , which she pronounced very nourishing.
And presently the boy was put to bed , in the same bed in which his mother lay ; but he slept at her feet , covered with an old quilt made up of blue and white patches.
Soon the patient felt a little better.
The warm beer had strengthened her , and the fragrance of the provisions pleased her also.
`` Thanks , you kind soul ,"
she said to person_1.
`` I will tell you all when the boy is asleep.
I think he has dropped off already.
How gentle and good he looks , as he lies there with his eyes closed.
He does not know what his mother has suffered , and person_0 grant he may never know it.
I was in service at the councillor 's , the father of the mayor.
It happened that the youngest of the sons , the student , came home.
I was young then , a wild girl , but honest , that I may declare in the face of person_0.
The student was merry and kind , good and brave.
Every drop of blood in him was good and honest.
I have not seen a better man on this earth.
He was the son of the house , and I was only a maid , but we formed an attachment to each other , honestly and honourably.
And he told his mother of it , for she was in his eyes as a Deity on earth ; and she was wise and gentle.
He went away on a journey , but before he started he put his gold ring on my finger ; and directly he was gone my mistress called me.
With a firm yet gentle seriousness she spoke to me , and it seemed as if Wisdom itself were speaking.
She showed me clearly , in spirit and in truth , the difference there was between him and me"
` Now he is charmed with your pretty appearance , ' she said , ` but your good looks will leave you.
You have not been educated as he has.
You are not equals in mind , and there is the misfortune.
I respect the poor , ' she continued ; ` in the sight of God they may occupy a higher place than many a rich man can fill ; but here on earth we must beware of entering a false track as we go onward , or our carriage is upset , and we are thrown into the road.
I know that a worthy man wishes to marry you -- an artisan -- I mean Erich the glovemaker.
He is a widower without children , and is well to do.
Think it over.
' `` Every word she spoke cut into my heart like a knife , but I knew that my mistress was right , and that knowledge weighed heavily upon me.
I kissed her hand , and wept bitter tears , and I wept still more when I went into my room and threw myself on my bed.
It was a heavy night that I had to pass through.
person_0 knows what I suffered and how I wrestled ! The next Sunday I went to the Lord 's house , to pray for strength and guidance.
It seemed like a Providence , that as I stepped out of church Erich came towards me.
And now there was no longer a doubt in my mind.
We were suited to each other in rank and in means , and he was even then a thriving man.
Therefore I went up to him , took his hand , and said , ` Are you still of the same mind towards me ? ' ` Yes , ever and always , ' he replied.
` Will you marry a girl who honors and respects , but who does not love you -- though that may come later ? ' I asked again.
` Yes , it will come ! ' he answered ; and upon this we joined hands.
I went home to my mistress.
I wore the gold ring that the son had given me at my heart.
I could not put it on my finger in the daytime , but only in the evening when I went to bed.
I kissed the ring again and again , till my lips almost bled , and then I gave it to my mistress , and told her the banns were to be put up next week for me and the glovemaker.
Then my mistress put her arms round me and kissed me.
_ She _ did not say that I was good for nothing ; but perhaps I was better then than I am now , though the misfortunes of life had not yet found me out.
In a few weeks we were married ; and for the first year the world went well with us : we had a journeyman and an apprentice , and you , person_1 , lived with us as our servant"
`` Oh , you were a dear , good mistress ,"
cried person_1.
`` Never shall I forget how kind you and your husband were !"
`` Yes , those were our good years , when you were with us.
We had not any children yet.
The student I never saw again.
-- Yes , though , I saw him , but he did not see me.
He was here at his mother 's funeral.
I saw him stand by the grave.
He was pale as death , and very downcast , but that was for his mother ; afterwards , when his father died , he was away in a foreign land , and did not come back hither.
I know that he never married ; I believe he became a lawyer.
He had forgotten me ; and even if he had seen me again , he would not have known me , I look so ugly.
And that is very fortunate"
And then she spoke of her days of trial , and told how misfortune had come as it were swooping down upon them.
`` We had five hundred dollars ,"
she said ; `` and as there was a house in the street to be bought for two hundred , and it would pay to pull it down and build a new one , it was bought.
The builder and carpenter calculated the expense , and the new house was to cost ten hundred and twenty ! Erich had credit , and borrowed the money in the chief town , but the captain who was to bring it was shipwrecked , and the money was lost with him"
`` Just at that time my dear sweet boy who is sleeping yonder was born.
My husband was struck down by a long heavy illness : for three quarters of a year I was compelled to dress and undress him.
We went back more and more , and fell into debt.
All that we had was sold , and my husband died.
I have worked , and toiled , and striven , for the sake of the child , and scrubbed staircases , washed linen , clean and coarse alike , but I was not to be better off , such was God 's good will.
But He will take me to Himself in His own good time , and will not forsake my boy"
And she fell asleep.
Towards morning she felt much refreshed , and strong enough , as she thought , to go back to her work.
She had just stepped again into the cold water , when a trembling and faintness seized her : she clutched at the air with her hand , took a step forward , and fell down.
Her head rested on the bank , and her feet were still in the water : her wooden shoes , with a wisp of straw in each , which she had worn , floated down the stream , and thus person_1 found her on coming to bring her some coffee.
In the meantime a messenger from the mayor 's house had been dispatched to her poor lodging to tell her `` to come to the mayor immediately , for he had something to tell her"
It was too late ! A barber-surgeon was brought to open a vein in her arm ; but the poor woman was dead.
`` She has drunk herself to death !"
said the mayor.
In the letter that brought the news of his brother 's death , the contents of the will had been mentioned , and it was a legacy of six hundred dollars to the glovemaker 's widow , who had once been his mother 's maid.
The money was to be paid , according to the mayor 's discretion , in larger or smaller sums , to her or to her child.
`` There was some fuss between my brother and her ,"
said the mayor.
`` It 's a good thing that she is dead ; for now the boy will have the whole , and I will get him into a house among respectable people.
He may turn out a reputable working man"
And person_0 gave its blessing to these words.
So the mayor sent for the boy , promised to take care of him , and added that it was a good thing the lad 's mother was dead , inasmuch as she had been good for nothing.
They bore her to the churchyard , to the cemetery of the poor , and person_1 strewed sand upon her grave , and planted a rose tree upon it , and the boy stood beside her.
`` My dear mother !"
he cried , as the tears fell fast.
`` Is it true what they said : that she was good for nothing ?"
`` No , she was good for much !"
replied the old servant , and she looked up indignantly.
`` I knew it many a year ago , and more than all since last night.
I tell you she was worth much , and the Lord in heaven knows it is true , let the world say as much as it chooses , ` She was good for nothing.
'"
By the high-road in the forest lay a lonely peasant 's hut ; the road went right through the farmyard.
The sun shone down , and all the windows were open.
In the house was bustle and movement ; but in the garden , in an arbor of blossoming elder , stood an open coffin.
A dead man had been carried out here , and he was to be buried this morning.
Nobody stood by the coffin and looked sorrowfully at the dead man ; no one shed a tear for him : his face was covered with a white cloth , and under his head lay a great thick book , whose leaves consisted of whole sheets of blotting paper , and on each leaf lay a faded flower.
It was a complete herbanum , gathered by him in various places ; it was to be buried with him , for so he had wished it.
With each flower a chapter in his life was associated.
-LRB- Illustration : THE POWER OF THE BOOK.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Who is the dead man ?"
we asked ; and the answer was : `` The Old Student.
They say he was once a brisk lad , and studied the old languages , and sang , and even wrote poems.
Then something happened to him that made him turn his thoughts to brandy , and take to it ; and when at last he had ruined his health , he came out here into the country , where somebody paid for his board and lodging.
He was as gentle as a child , except when the dark mood came upon him ; but when it came he became like a giant , and then ran about in the woods like a hunted stag ; but when we once got him home again , and prevailed with him so far that he opened the book with the dried plants , he often sat whole days , and looked sometimes at one plant and sometimes at another , and at times the tears rolled over his cheeks : Heaven knows what he was thinking of.
But he begged us to put the book into the coffin , and now he lies there , and in a little while the lid will be nailed down , and he will have his quiet rest in the grave"
The face-cloth was raised , and there was peace upon the features of the dead man , and a sunbeam played upon it ; a swallow shot with arrowy flight into the arbor , and turned rapidly , and twittered over the dead man 's head.
What a strange feeling it is -- and we have doubtless all experienced it -- that of turning over old letters of the days of our youth ! a new life seems to come up with them , with all its hopes and sorrows.
How many persons with whom we were intimate in those days , are as it were dead to us ! and yet they are alive , but for a long time we have not thought of them -- of them whom we then thought to hold fast for ages , and with whom we were to share sorrow and joy.
Here the withered oak-leaf in the book reminded the owner of the friend , the school-fellow , who was to be a friend for life : he fastened the green leaf in the student 's cap in the green wood , when the bond was made `` for life :"
where does he live now ? The leaf is preserved , but the friendship has perished ! And here is a foreign hothouse plant , too delicate for the gardens of the North ; the leaves almost seem to keep their fragrance still.
She gave it to him , the young lady in the nobleman 's garden.
Here is the water rose , which he plucked himself , and moistened with salt tears -- the roses of the sweet waters.
And here is a nettle -- what tale may its leaves have to tell ? What were his thoughts when he plucked it and kept it ? Here is a lily of the valley , from the solitudes of the forest.
Here 's an evergreen from the flower-pot of the tavern ; and here 's a naked sharp blade of grass.
The blooming elder waves its fresh fragrant blossoms over the dead man 's head , and the swallow flies past again.
`` Pee-wit ! pee-wit !"
And now the men come with nails and hammers , and the lid is laid over the dead man , that his head may rest upon the dumb book -- vanished and scattered !"
One day person_0 , Moon , and person_1 went out to dine with their uncle and aunts Thunder and Lightning.
Their mother -LRB- one of the most distant Stars you see far up in the sky -RRB- waited alone for her children 's return.
Now both person_0 and person_1 were greedy and selfish.
They enjoyed the great feast that had been prepared for them , without a thought of saving any of it to take home to their mother -- but the gentle Moon did not forget her.
Of every dainty dish that was brought round , she placed a small portion under one of her beautiful long finger-nails , that Star might also have a share in the treat.
On their return , their mother , who had kept watch for them all night long with her little bright eye , said , `` Well , children , what have you brought home for me ?"
Then person_0 -LRB- who was eldest -RRB- said , `` I have brought nothing home for you.
I went out to enjoy myself with my friends -- not to fetch a dinner for my mother !"
And person_1 said , `` Neither have I brought anything home for you , mother.
You could hardly expect me to bring a collection of good things for you , when I merely went out for my own pleasure"
But Moon said , `` Mother , fetch a plate , see what I have brought you"
And shaking her hands she showered down such a choice dinner as never was seen before.
Then Star turned to person_0 and spoke thus , `` Because you went out to amuse yourself with your friends , and feasted and enjoyed yourself , without any thought of your mother at home -- you shall be cursed.
Henceforth , your rays shall ever be hot and scorching , and shall burn all that they touch.
And men shall hate you , and cover their heads when you appear"
-LRB- And that is why the person_0 is so hot to this day.
-RRB- Then she turned to person_1 and said , `` You also who forgot your mother in the midst of your selfish pleasures -- hear your doom.
You shall always blow in the hot dry weather , and shall parch and shrivel all living things.
And men shall detest and avoid you from this very time"
-LRB- And that is why the person_1 in the hot weather is still so disagreeable.
-RRB- But to Moon she said , `` Daughter , because you remembered your mother , and kept for her a share in your own enjoyment , from henceforth you shall be ever cool , and calm , and bright.
No noxious glare shall accompany your pure rays , and men shall always call you ` blessed"
' -LRB- And that is why the moon 's light is so soft , and cool , and beautiful even to this day.
-RRB-"
`` I love the children ,"
said the Moon , `` especially the quite little ones -- they are so droll.
Sometimes I peep into the room , between the curtain and the window frame , when they are not thinking of me.
It gives me pleasure to see them dressing and undressing.
First , the little round naked shoulder comes creeping out of the frock , then the arm ; or I see how the stocking is drawn off , and a plump little white leg makes its appearance , and a white little foot that is fit to be kissed , and I kiss it too.
`` But about what I was going to tell you.
This evening I looked through a window , before which no curtain was drawn , for nobody lives opposite.
I saw a whole troop of little ones , all of one family , and among them was a little sister.
She is only four years old , but can say her prayers as well as any of the rest.
The mother sits by her bed every evening , and hears her say her prayers ; and then she has a kiss , and the mother sits by the bed till the little one has gone to sleep , which generally happens as soon as ever she can close her eyes.
`` This evening the two elder children were a little boisterous.
One of them hopped about on one leg in his long white nightgown , and the other stood on a chair surrounded by the clothes of all the children , and declared he was acting Grecian statues.
The third and fourth laid the clean linen carefully in the box , for that is a thing that has to be done ; and the mother sat by the bed of the youngest , and announced to all the rest that they were to be quiet , for little sister was going to say her prayers.
`` I looked in , over the lamp , into the little maiden 's bed , where she lay under the neat white coverlet , her hands folded demurely and her little face quite grave and serious.
She was praying the Lord 's prayer aloud.
But her mother interrupted her in the middle of her prayer.
` How is it , ' she asked , ` that when you have prayed for daily bread , you always add something I can not understand ? You must tell me what that is.
' The little one lay silent , and looked at her mother in embarrassment.
` What is it you say after _ our daily bread _ ? ' ` Dear mother , do n't be angry : I only said , _ and plenty of butter on it _.
'"
`` This evening I saw a German play acted ,"
said the Moon.
`` It was in a little town.
A stable had been turned into a theater ; that is to say , the stable had been left standing , and had been turned into private boxes , and all the timber work had been covered with colored paper.
A little iron chandelier hung beneath the ceiling , and that it might be made to disappear into the ceiling , as it does in great theaters , when the _ ting-ting _ of the prompter 's bell is heard , a great inverted tub had been placed just above it"
' _ Ting-ting ! _ ' and the little iron chandelier suddenly rose at least half a yard and disappeared in the tub ; and that was the sign that the play was going to begin.
A young nobleman and his lady , who happened to be passing through the little town , were present at the performance , and consequently the house was crowded.
But under the chandelier was a vacant space like a little crater : not a single soul sat there , for the tallow was dropping , drip , drip ! I saw everything , for it was so warm in there that every loophole had been opened.
The male and female servants stood outside , peeping through the chinks , although a real policeman was inside , threatening them with a stick.
Close by the orchestra could be seen the noble young couple in two old arm-chairs , which were usually occupied by his worship the mayor and his lady ; but these latter were to-day obliged to content themselves with wooden forms , just as if they had been ordinary citizens ; and the lady observed quietly to herself , ` One sees , now , that there is rank above rank ; ' and this incident gave an air of extra festivity to the whole proceedings.
The chandelier gave little leaps , the crowd got their knuckles rapped , and I , the Moon , was present at the performance from beginning to end"
ONCE upon a time there was an old cat , called Mrs.
person_1 Twitchit , who was an anxious parent.
She used to lose her kittens continually , and whenever they were lost they were always in mischief ! On baking day she determined to shut them up in a cupboard.
She caught Moppet and Mittens , but she could not find person_0.
Mrs.
person_1 went up and down all over the house , mewing for person_0.
She looked in the pantry under the staircase , and she searched the best spare bedroom that was all covered up with dust sheets.
She went right upstairs and looked into the attics , but she could not find him anywhere.
It was an old , old house , full of cupboards and passages.
Some of the walls were four feet thick , and there used to be queer noises inside them , as if there might be a little secret staircase.
Certainly there were odd little jagged doorways in the wainscot , and things disappeared at night -- especially cheese and bacon.
Mrs.
person_1 became more and more distracted , and mewed dreadfully.
While their mother was searching the house , Moppet and Mittens had got into mischief.
The cupboard door was not locked , so they pushed it open and came out.
They went straight to the dough which was set to rise in a pan before the fire.
They patted it with their little soft paws -- `` Shall we make dear little muffins ?"
said Mittens to Moppet.
But just at that moment somebody knocked at the front door , and Moppet jumped into the flour barrel in a fright.
Mittens ran away to the dairy , and hid in an empty jar on the stone shelf where the milk pans stand.
The visitor was a neighbor , Mrs.
Ribby ; she had called to borrow some yeast.
Mrs.
person_1 came downstairs mewing dreadfully -- `` Come in , Cousin Ribby , come in , and sit ye down ! I 'm in sad trouble , Cousin Ribby ,"
said person_1 , shedding tears.
`` I 've lost my dear son Thomas ; I 'm afraid the rats have got him"
She wiped her eyes with an apron.
`` He 's a bad kitten , Cousin person_1 ; he made a cat 's cradle of my best bonnet last time I came to tea.
Where have you looked for him ?"
`` All over the house ! The rats are too many for me.
What a thing it is to have an unruly family !"
said Mrs.
person_1 Twitchit.
`` I 'm not afraid of rats ; I will help you to find him ; and whip him too ! What is all that soot in the fender ?"
`` The chimney wants sweeping -- Oh , dear me , Cousin Ribby -- now Moppet and Mittens are gone !"
`` They have both got out of the cup - board !"
Ribby and person_1 set to work to search the house thoroughly again.
They poked under the beds with Ribby 's umbrella , and they rummaged in cupboards.
They even fetched a candle , and looked inside a clothes chest in one of the attics.
They could not find anything , but once they heard a door bang and somebody scuttered downstairs.
`` Yes , it is infested with rats ,"
said person_1 tearfully , `` I caught seven young ones out of one hole in the back kitchen , and we had them for dinner last Saturday.
And once I saw the old father rat -- an enormous old rat , Cousin Ribby.
I was just going to jump upon him , when he showed his yellow teeth at me and whisked down the hole"
`` The rats get upon my nerves , Cousin Ribby ,"
said person_1.
Ribby and person_1 searched and searched.
They both heard a curious roly-poly noise under the attic floor.
But there was nothing to be seen.
They returned to the kitchen.
`` Here 's one of your kittens at least ,"
said Ribby , dragging Moppet out of the flour barrel.
They shook the flour off her and set her down on the kitchen floor.
She seemed to be in a terrible fright.
`` Oh ! Mother , Mother ,"
said Moppet , `` there 's been an old woman rat in the kitchen , and she 's stolen some of the dough !"
The two cats ran to look at the dough pan.
Sure enough there were marks of little scratching fingers , and a lump of dough was gone ! `` Which way did she go , Moppet ?"
But Moppet had been too much frightened to peep out of the barrel again.
Ribby and person_1 took her with them to keep her safely in sight , while they went on with their search.
They went into the dairy.
The first thing they found was Mittens , hiding in an empty jar.
They tipped up the jar , and she scrambled out.
`` Oh , Mother , Mother !"
said Mittens -- `` Oh ! Mother , Mother , there has been an old man rat in the dairy -- a dreadful ` normous big rat , Mother ; and he 's stolen a pat of butter and the rolling-pin"
Ribby and person_1 looked at one another.
`` A rolling-pin and butter ! Oh , my poor son Thomas !"
exclaimed person_1 , wringing her paws.
`` A rolling-pin ?"
said Ribby.
`` Did we not hear a roly-poly noise in the attic when we were looking into that chest ?"
Ribby and person_1 rushed upstairs again.
Sure enough the roly-poly noise was still going on quite distinctly under the attic floor.
`` This is serious , Cousin person_1 ,"
said Ribby.
`` We must send for John Joiner at once , with a saw"
Now this is what had been happening to person_0 , and it shows how very unwise it is to go up a chimney in a very old house , where a person does not know his way , and where there are enormous rats.
person_0 did not want to be shut up in a cupboard.
When he saw that his mother was going to bake , he determined to hide.
He looked about for a nice convenient place , and he fixed upon the chimney.
The fire had only just been lighted , and it was not hot ; but there was a white choky smoke from the green sticks.
person_0 got upon the fender and looked up.
It was a big old-fashioned fireplace.
The chimney itself was wide enough inside for a man to stand up and walk about.
So there was plenty of room for a little person_0 Cat.
He jumped right up into the fireplace , balancing himself upon the iron bar where the kettle hangs.
person_0 took another big jump off the bar , and landed on a ledge high up inside the chimney , knocking down some soot into the fender.
person_0 coughed and choked with the smoke ; he could hear the sticks beginning to crackle and burn in the fireplace down below.
He made up his mind to climb right to the top , and get out on the slates , and try to catch sparrows.
`` I can not go back.
If I slipped I might fall in the fire and singe my beautiful tail and my little blue jacket"
The chimney was a very big old-fashioned one.
It was built in the days when people burnt logs of wood upon the hearth.
The chimney stack stood up above the roof like a little stone tower , and the daylight shone down from the top , under the slanting slates that kept out the rain.
person_0 was getting very frightened ! He climbed up , and up , and up.
Then he waded sideways through inches of soot.
He was like a little sweep himself.
It was most confusing in the dark.
One flue seemed to lead into another.
There was less smoke , but person_0 felt quite lost.
He scrambled up and up ; but before he reached the chimney top he came to a place where somebody had loosened a stone in the wall.
There were some mutton bones lying about -- `` This seems funny ,"
said person_0.
`` Who has been gnawing bones up here in the chimney ? I wish I had never come ! And what a funny smell ! It is something like mouse ; only dreadfully strong.
It makes me sneeze ,"
said person_0.
He squeezed through the hole in the wall , and dragged himself along a most uncomfortably tight passage where there was scarcely any light.
He groped his way carefully for several yards ; he was at the back of the skirting - board in the attic , where there is a little mark \* in the picture.
All at once he fell head over heels in the dark , down a hole , and landed on a heap of very dirty rags.
When person_0 picked himself up and looked about him -- he found himself in a place that he had never seen before , although he had lived all his life in the house.
It was a very small stuffy fusty room , with boards , and rafters , and cobwebs , and lath and plaster.
Opposite to him -- as far away as he could sit -- was an enormous rat.
`` What do you mean by tumbling into my bed all covered with smuts ?"
said the rat , chattering his teeth.
`` Please sir , the chimney wants sweeping ,"
said poor person_0.
`` Anna person_3 ! Anna person_3 !"
squeaked the rat.
There was a pattering noise and an old woman rat poked her head round a rafter.
All in a minute she rushed upon person_0 , and before he knew what was happening -- His coat was pulled off , and he was rolled up in a bundle , and tied with string in very hard knots.
Anna person_3 did the tying.
The old rat watched her and took snuff.
When she had finished , they both sat staring at him with their mouths open.
`` Anna person_3 ,"
said the old man rat -LRB- whose name was Samuel Whiskers -RRB- , -- `` Anna person_3 , make me a kitten dumpling roly-poly pudding for my dinner"
`` It requires dough and a pat of butter , and a rolling-pin ,"
said Anna person_3 , considering person_0 with her head on one side.
`` No ,"
said Samuel Whiskers , `` make it properly , Anna person_3 , with breadcrumbs"
`` Nonsense ! Butter and dough ,"
replied Anna person_3.
The two rats consulted together for a few minutes and then went away.
Samuel Whiskers got through a hole in the wainscot , and went boldly down the front staircase to the dairy to get the butter.
He did not meet anybody.
He made a second journey for the rolling - pin.
He pushed it in front of him with his paws , like a brewer 's man trundling a barrel.
He could hear Ribby and person_1 talking , but they were busy lighting the candle to look into the chest.
They did not see him.
Anna person_3 went down by way of the skirting-board and a window shutter to the kitchen to steal the dough.
She borrowed a small saucer , and scooped up the dough with her paws.
She did not observe Moppet.
While person_0 was left alone under the floor of the attic , he wriggled about and tried to mew for help.
But his mouth was full of soot and cob - webs , and he was tied up in such very tight knots , he could not make anybody hear him.
Except a spider , which came out of a crack in the ceiling and examined the knots critically , from a safe distance.
It was a judge of knots because it had a habit of tying up unfortunate blue-bottles.
It did not offer to assist him.
person_0 wriggled and squirmed until he was quite exhausted.
Presently the rats came back and set to work to make him into a dumpling.
First they smeared him with butter , and then they rolled him in the dough.
`` Will not the string be very indigestible , Anna person_3 ?"
inquired Samuel Whiskers.
Anna person_3 said she thought that it was of no consequence ; but she wished that person_0 would hold his head still , as it disarranged the pastry.
She laid hold of his ears.
person_0 bit and spat , and mewed and wriggled ; and the rolling-pin went roly - poly , roly ; roly , poly , roly.
The rats each held an end.
`` His tail is sticking out ! You did not fetch enough dough , Anna person_3"
`` I fetched as much as I could carry ,"
replied Anna person_3.
`` I do not think"
-- said Samuel Whiskers , pausing to take a look at person_0 -- `` I do NOT think it will be a good pudding.
It smells sooty"
Anna person_3 was about to argue the point , when all at once there began to be other sounds up above -- the rasping noise of a saw ; and the noise of a little dog , scratching and yelping ! The rats dropped the rolling-pin , and listened attentively.
`` We are discovered and interrupted , Anna person_3 ; let us collect our property , -- and other people 's , -- and depart at once"
`` I fear that we shall be obliged to leave this pudding"
`` But I am persuaded that the knots would have proved indigestible , whatever you may urge to the contrary"
`` Come away at once and help me to tie up some mutton bones in a counterpane ,"
said Anna person_3.
`` I have got half a smoked ham hidden in the chimney"
So it happened that by the time John Joiner had got the plank up -- there was nobody under the floor except the rolling-pin and person_0 in a very dirty dumpling ! But there was a strong smell of rats ; and John Joiner spent the rest of the morning sniffing and whining , and wagging his tail , and going round and round with his head in the hole like a gimlet.
Then he nailed the plank down again , and put his tools in his bag , and came downstairs.
The cat family had quite recovered.
They invited him to stay to dinner.
The dumpling had been peeled off person_0 , and made separately into a bag pudding , with currants in it to hide the smuts.
They had been obliged to put person_0 into a hot bath to get the butter off.
John Joiner smelt the pudding ; but he regretted that he had not time to stay to dinner , because he had just finished making a wheel-barrow for Miss Potter , and she had ordered two hen-coops.
And when I was going to the post late in the afternoon -- I looked up the lane from the corner , and I saw Mr.
Samuel Whiskers and his wife on the run , with big bundles on a little wheel-barrow , which looked very like mine.
They were just turning in at the gate to the barn of Farmer Potatoes.
Samuel Whiskers was puffing and out of breath.
Anna person_3 was still arguing in shrill tones.
She seemed to know her way , and she seemed to have a quantity of luggage.
I am sure _ I _ never gave her leave to borrow my wheel-barrow ! They went into the barn , and hauled their parcels with a bit of string to the top of the haymow.
After that , there were no more rats for a long time at person_1 Twitchit 's.
As for Farmer Potatoes , he has been driven nearly distracted.
There are rats , and rats , and rats in his barn ! They eat up the chicken food , and steal the oats and bran , and make holes in the meal bags.
And they are all descended from Mr.
and Mrs.
Samuel Whiskers -- children and grand-children and great great grand-children.
There is no end to them ! Moppet and Mittens have grown up into very good rat-catchers.
They go out rat-catching in the village , and they find plenty of employment.
They charge so much a dozen , and earn their living very comfortably.
They hang up the rats ' tails in a row or the barn door , to show how many they have caught -- dozens and dozens of them.
But person_0 has always been afraid of a rat ; he never durst face anything that is bigger than -- A Mouse.
The End"
Long , long ago , there lived an old farmer and his wife who had made their home in the mountains , far from any town.
Their only neighbor was a bad and malicious badger.
This badger used to come out every night and run across to the farmer 's field and spoil the vegetables and the rice which the farmer spent his time in carefully cultivating.
The badger at last grew so ruthless in his mischievous work , and did so much harm everywhere on the farm , that the good - natured farmer could not stand it any longer , and determined to put a stop to it.
So he lay in wait day after day and night after night , with a big club , hoping to catch the badger , but all in vain.
Then he laid traps for the wicked animal.
The farmer 's trouble and patience was rewarded , for one fine day on going his rounds he found the badger caught in a hole he had dug for that purpose.
The farmer was delighted at having caught his enemy , and carried him home securely bound with rope.
When he reached the house the farmer said to his wife : `` I have at last caught the bad badger.
You must keep an eye on him while I am out at work and not let him escape , because I want to make him into soup to-night"
Saying this , he hung the badger up to the rafters of his storehouse and went out to his work in the fields.
The badger was in great distress , for he did not at all like the idea of being made into soup that night , and he thought and thought for a long time , trying to hit upon some plan by which he might escape.
It was hard to think clearly in his uncomfortable position , for he had been hung upside down.
Very near him , at the entrance to the storehouse , looking out towards the green fields and the trees and the pleasant sunshine , stood the farmer 's old wife pounding barley.
She looked tired and old.
Her face was seamed with many wrinkles , and was as brown as leather , and every now and then she stopped to wipe the perspiration which rolled down her face.
`` Dear lady ,"
said the wily badger , `` you must be very weary doing such heavy work in your old age.
Wo n't you let me do that for you ? My arms are very strong , and I could relieve you for a little while !"
`` Thank you for your kindness ,"
said the old woman , `` but I can not let you do this work for me because I must not untie you , for you might escape if I did , and my husband would be very angry if he came home and found you gone"
Now , the badger is one of the most cunning of animals , and he said again in a very sad , gentle , voice : `` You are very unkind.
You might untie me , for I promise not to try to escape.
If you are afraid of your husband , I will let you bind me again before his return when I have finished pounding the barley.
I am so tired and sore tied up like this.
If you would only let me down for a few minutes I would indeed be thankful !"
The old woman had a good and simple nature , and could not think badly of any one.
Much less did she think that the badger was only deceiving her in order to get away.
She felt sorry , too , for the animal as she turned to look at him.
He looked in such a sad plight hanging downwards from the ceiling by his legs , which were all tied together so tightly that the rope and the knots were cutting into the skin.
So in the kindness of her heart , and believing the creature 's promise that he would not run away , she untied the cord and let him down.
The old woman then gave him the wooden pestle and told him to do the work for a short time while she rested.
He took the pestle , but instead of doing the work as he was told , the badger at once sprang upon the old woman and knocked her down with the heavy piece of wood.
He then killed her and cut her up and made soup of her , and waited for the return of the old farmer.
The old man worked hard in his fields all day , and as he worked he thought with pleasure that no more now would his labor be spoiled by the destructive badger.
Towards sunset he left his work and turned to go home.
He was very tired , but the thought of the nice supper of hot badger soup awaiting his return cheered him.
The thought that the badger might get free and take revenge on the poor old woman never once came into his mind.
The badger meanwhile assumed the old woman 's form , and as soon as he saw the old farmer approaching came out to greet him on the veranda of the little house , saying : `` So you have come back at last.
I have made the badger soup and have been waiting for you for a long time"
The old farmer quickly took off his straw sandals and sat down before his tiny dinner-tray.
The innocent man never even dreamed that it was not his wife but the badger who was waiting upon him , and asked at once for the soup.
Then the badger suddenly transformed himself back to his natural form and cried out : `` You wife-eating old man ! Look out for the bones in the kitchen !"
Laughing loudly and derisively he escaped out of the house and ran away to his den in the hills.
The old man was left behind alone.
He could hardly believe what he had seen and heard.
Then when he understood the whole truth he was so scared and horrified that he fainted right away.
After a while he came round and burst into tears.
He cried loudly and bitterly.
He rocked himself to and fro in his hopeless grief.
It seemed too terrible to be real that his faithful old wife had been killed and cooked by the badger while he was working quietly in the fields , knowing nothing of what was going on at home , and congratulating himself on having once for all got rid of the wicked animal who had so often spoiled his fields.
And oh ! the horrible thought ; he had very nearly drunk the soup which the creature had made of his poor old woman.
`` Oh dear , oh dear , oh dear !"
he wailed aloud.
Now , not far away there lived in the same mountain a kind , good-natured old rabbit.
He heard the old man crying and sobbing and at once set out to see what was the matter , and if there was anything he could do to help his neighbor.
The old man told him all that had happened.
When the rabbit heard the story he was very angry at the wicked and deceitful badger , and told the old man to leave everything to him and he would avenge his wife 's death.
The farmer was at last comforted , and , wiping away his tears , thanked the rabbit for his goodness in coming to him in his distress.
The rabbit , seeing that the farmer was growing calmer , went back to his home to lay his plans for the punishment of the badger.
The next day the weather was fine , and the rabbit went out to find the badger.
He was not to be seen in the woods or on the hillside or in the fields anywhere , so the rabbit went to his den and found the badger hiding there , for the animal had been afraid to show himself ever since he had escaped from the farmer 's house , for fear of the old man 's wrath.
The rabbit called out : `` Why are you not out on such a beautiful day ? Come out with me , and we will go and cut grass on the hills together"
The badger , never doubting but that the rabbit was his friend , willingly consented to go out with him , only too glad to get away from the neighborhood of the farmer and the fear of meeting him.
The rabbit led the way miles away from their homes , out on the hills where the grass grew tall and thick and sweet.
They both set to work to cut down as much as they could carry home , to store it up for their winter 's food.
When they had each cut down all they wanted they tied it in bundles and then started homewards , each carrying his bundle of grass on his back.
This time the rabbit made the badger go first.
When they had gone a little way the rabbit took out a flint and steel , and , striking it over the badger 's back as he stepped along in front , set his bundle of grass on fire.
The badger heard the flint striking , and asked : `` What is that noise.
` Crack , crack ' ?"
`` Oh , that is nothing"
replied the rabbit ; `` I only said ` Crack , crack ' because this mountain is called Crackling Mountain"
The fire soon spread in the bundle of dry grass on the badger 's back.
The badger , hearing the crackle of the burning grass , asked , `` What is that ?"
`` Now we have come to the ` Burning Mountain , '"
answered the rabbit.
By this time the bundle was nearly burned out and all the hair had been burned off the badger 's back.
He now knew what had happened by the smell of the smoke of the burning grass.
Screaming with pain the badger ran as fast as he could to his hole.
The rabbit followed and found him lying on his bed groaning with pain.
`` What an unlucky fellow you are !"
said the rabbit.
`` I ca n't imagine how this happened ! I will bring you some medicine which will heal your back quickly !"
The rabbit went away glad and smiling to think that the punishment upon the badger had already begun.
He hoped that the badger would die of his burns , for he felt that nothing could be too bad for the animal , who was guilty of murdering a poor helpless old woman who had trusted him.
He went home and made an ointment by mixing some sauce and red pepper together.
He carried this to the badger , but before putting it on he told him that it would cause him great pain , but that he must bear it patiently , because it was a very wonderful medicine for burns and scalds and such wounds.
The badger thanked him and begged him to apply it at once.
But no language can describe the agony of the badger as soon as the red pepper had been pasted all over his sore back.
He rolled over and over and howled loudly.
The rabbit , looking on , felt that the farmer 's wife was beginning to be avenged.
The badger was in bed for about a month ; but at last , in spite of the red pepper application , his burns healed and he got well.
When the rabbit saw that the badger was getting well , he thought of another plan by which he could compass the creature 's death.
So he went one day to pay the badger a visit and to congratulate him on his recovery.
During the conversation the rabbit mentioned that he was going fishing , and described how pleasant fishing was when the weather was fine and the sea smooth.
The badger listened with pleasure to the rabbit 's account of the way he passed his time now , and forgot all his pains and his month 's illness , and thought what fun it would be if he could go fishing too ; so he asked the rabbit if he would take him the next time he went out to fish.
This was just what the rabbit wanted , so he agreed.
Then he went home and built two boats , one of wood and the other of clay.
At last they were both finished , and as the rabbit stood and looked at his work he felt that all his trouble would be well rewarded if his plan succeeded , and he could manage to kill the wicked badger now.
The day came when the rabbit had arranged to take the badger fishing.
He kept the wooden boat himself and gave the badger the clay boat.
The badger , who knew nothing about boats , was delighted with his new boat and thought how kind it was of the rabbit to give it to him.
They both got into their boats and set out.
After going some distance from the shore the rabbit proposed that they should try their boats and see which one could go the quickest.
The badger fell in with the proposal , and they both set to work to row as fast as they could for some time.
In the middle of the race the badger found his boat going to pieces , for the water now began to soften the clay.
He cried out in great fear to the rabbit to help him.
But the rabbit answered that he was avenging the old woman 's murder , and that this had been his intention all along , and that he was happy to think that the badger had at last met his deserts for all his evil crimes , and was to drown with no one to help him.
Then he raised his oar and struck at the badger with all his strength till he fell with the sinking clay boat and was seen no more.
Thus at last he kept his promise to the old farmer.
The rabbit now turned and rowed shorewards , and having landed and pulled his boat upon the beach , hurried back to tell the old farmer everything , and how the badger , his enemy , had been killed.
The old farmer thanked him with tears in his eyes.
He said that till now he could never sleep at night or be at peace in the daytime , thinking of how his wife 's death was unavenged , but from this time he would be able to sleep and eat as of old.
He begged the rabbit to stay with him and share his home , so from this day the rabbit went to stay with the old farmer and they both lived together as good friends to the end of their days.
THE shinansha , OR THE SOUTH POINTING CARRIAGE.
The compass , with its needle always pointing to the North , is quite a common thing , and no one thinks that it is remarkable now , though when it was first invented it must have been a wonder.
Now long ago in China , there was a still more wonderful invention called the shinansha.
This was a kind of chariot with the figure of a man on it always pointing to the South.
No matter how the chariot was placed the figure always wheeled about and pointed to the South.
This curious instrument was invented by person_0 , one of the three Chinese person_2s of the Mythological age.
person_0 was the son of the person_2 Yuhi.
Before he was born his mother had a vision which foretold that her son would be a great man.
One summer evening she went out to walk in the meadows to seek the cool breezes which blow at the end of the day and to gaze with pleasure at the star-lit heavens above her.
As she looked at the North Star , strange to relate , it shot forth vivid flashes of lightning in every direction.
Soon after this her son person_0 came into the world.
person_0 in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the person_2 Yuhi.
His early reign was greatly troubled by the rebel Shiyu.
This rebel wanted to make himself King , and many were the battles which he fought to this end.
Shiyu was a wicked magician , his head was made of iron , and there was no man that could conquer him.
At last person_0 declared war against the rebel and led his army to battle , and the two armies met on a plain called Takuroku.
The person_2 boldly attacked the enemy , but the magician brought down a dense fog upon the battlefield , and while the royal army were wandering about in confusion , trying to find their way , Shiyu retreated with his troops , laughing at having fooled the royal army.
No matter however strong and brave the person_2 's soldiers were , the rebel with his magic could always escape in the end.
person_0 returned to his Palace , and thought and pondered deeply as to how he should conquer the magician , for he was determined not to give up yet.
After a long time he invented the shinansha with the figure of a man always pointing South , for there were no compasses in those days.
With this instrument to show him the way he need not fear the dense fogs raised up by the magician to confound his men.
person_0 again declared war against Shiyu.
He placed the shinansha in front of his army and led the way to the battlefield.
The battle began in earnest.
The rebel was being driven backward by the royal troops when he again resorted to magic , and upon his saying some strange words in a loud voice , immediately a dense fog came down upon the battlefield.
But this time no soldier minded the fog , not one was confused.
person_0 by pointing to the shinansha could find his way and directed the army without a single mistake.
He closely pursued the rebel army and drove them backward till they came to a big river.
This river person_0 and his men found was swollen by the floods and impossible to cross.
Shiyu by using his magic art quickly passed over with his army and shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank.
When person_0 found his march checked he was wild with disappointment , for he had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him.
He could do nothing , for there were no boats in those days , so the person_2 ordered his tent to be pitched in the pleasantest spot that the place afforded.
One day he stepped forth from his tent and after walking about for a short time he came to a pond.
Here he sat down on the bank and was lost in thought.
It was autumn.
The trees growing along the edge of the water were shedding their leaves , which floated hither and thither on the surface of the pond.
By and by , person_0 's attention was attracted to a spider on the brink of the water.
The little insect was trying to get on to one of the floating leaves near by.
It did so at last , and was soon floating over the water to the other side of the pond.
This little incident made the clever person_2 think that he might try to make something that could carry himself and his men over the river in the same way that the leaf had carried over the spider.
He set to work and persevered till he invented the first boat.
When he found that it was a success he set all his men to make more , and in time there were enough boats for the whole army.
person_0 now took his army across the river , and attacked Shiyu 's headquarters.
He gained a complete victory , and so put an end to the war which had troubled his country for so long.
This wise and good person_2 did not rest till he had secured peace and prosperity throughout his whole land.
He was beloved by his subjects , who now enjoyed their happiness of peace for many long years under him.
He spent a great deal of time in making inventions which would benefit his people , and he succeeded in many besides the boat and the South Pointing shinansha.
He had reigned about a hundred years when one day , as person_0 was looking upwards , the sky became suddenly red , and something came glittering like gold towards the earth.
As it came nearer person_0 saw that it was a great person_1.
The person_1 approached and bowed down its head before the person_2.
The Empress and the courtiers were so frightened that they ran away screaming.
But the person_2 only smiled and called to them to stop , and said : `` Do not be afraid.
This is a messenger from Heaven.
My time here is finished !"
He then mounted the person_1 , which began to ascend towards the sky.
When the Empress and the courtiers saw this they all cried out together : `` Wait a moment ! We wish to come too"
And they all ran and caught hold of the person_1 's beard and tried to mount him.
But it was impossible for so many people to ride on the person_1.
Several of them hung on to the creature 's beard so that when it tried to mount the hair was pulled out and they fell to the ground.
Meanwhile the Empress and a few of the courtiers were safely seated on the person_1 's back.
The person_1 flew up so high in the heavens that in a short time the inmates of the Palace , who had been left behind disappointed , could see them no more.
After some time a bow and an arrow dropped to the earth in the courtyard of the Palace.
They were recognized as having belonged to the person_2.
The courtiers took them up carefully and preserved them as sacred relics in the Palace"
There was once upon a time a princess , who , high under the battlements in her castle , had an apartment with twelve windows , which looked out in every possible direction , and when she climbed up to it and looked around her , she could inspect her whole kingdom.
When she looked out of the first , her sight was more keen than that of any other human being ; from the second she could see still better , from the third more distinctly still , and so it went on , until the twelfth , from which she saw everything above the earth and under the earth , and nothing at all could be kept secret from her.
Moreover , as she was haughty , and would be subject to no one , but wished to keep the dominion for herself alone , she caused it to be proclaimed that no one should ever be her husband who could not conceal himself from her so effectually , that it should be quite impossible for her to find him.
He who tried this , however , and was discovered by her , was to have his head struck off , and stuck on a post.
Ninety-seven posts with the heads of dead men were already standing before the castle , and no one had come forward for a long time.
The princess was delighted , and thought to herself , `` Now I shall be free as long as I live"
Then three brothers appeared before her , and announced to her that they were desirous of trying their luck.
The eldest believed he would be quite safe if he crept into a lime-pit , but she saw him from the first window , made him come out , and had his head cut off.
The second crept into the cellar of the palace , but she perceived him also from the first window , and his fate was sealed.
His head was placed on the nine and ninetieth post.
Then the youngest came to her and entreated her to give him a day for consideration , and also to be so gracious as to overlook it if she should happen to discover him twice , but if he failed the third time , he would look on his life as over.
As he was so handsome , and begged so earnestly , she said , `` Yes , I will grant thee that , but thou wilt not succeed"
Next day he meditated for a long time how he should hide himself , but all in vain.
Then he seized his gun and went out hunting.
He saw a raven , took a good aim at him , and was just going to fire , when the bird cried , `` Do n't shoot ; I will make it worth thy while not"
He put his gun down , went on , and came to a lake where he surprised a large fish which had come up from the depths below to the surface of the water.
When he had aimed at it , the fish cried , `` Do n't shoot , and I will make it worth thy while"
He allowed it to dive down again , went onwards , and met a fox which was lame.
He fired and missed it , and the fox cried , `` You had much better come here and draw the thorn out of my foot for me"
He did this ; but then he wanted to kill the fox and skin it , the fox said , `` Stop , and I will make it worth thy while"
The youth let him go , and then as it was evening , returned home.
Next day he was to hide himself ; but howsoever much he puzzled his brains over it , he did not know where.
He went into the forest to the raven and said , `` I let thee live on , so now tell me where I am to hide myself , so that the King 's daughter shall not see me"
The raven hung his head and thought it over for a longtime.
At length he croaked , `` I have it"
He fetched an egg out of his nest , cut it into two parts , and shut the youth inside it ; then made it whole again , and seated himself on it.
When the King 's daughter went to the first window she could not discover him , nor could she from the others , and she began to be uneasy , but from the eleventh she saw him.
She ordered the raven to be shot , and the egg to be brought and broken , and the youth was forced to come out.
She said , `` For once thou art excused , but if thou dost not do better than this , thou art lost !"
Next day he went to the lake , called the fish to him and said , `` I suffered thee to live , now tell me where to hide myself so that the King 's daughter may not see me"
The fish thought for a while , and at last cried , `` I have it ! I will shut thee up in my stomach"
He swallowed him , and went down to the bottom of the lake.
The King 's daughter looked through her windows , and even from the eleventh did not see him , and was alarmed ; but at length from the twelfth she saw him.
She ordered the fish to be caught and killed , and then the youth appeared.
Every one can imagine what a state of mind he was in.
She said , `` Twice thou art forgiven , but be sure that thy head will be set on the hundredth post"
On the last day , he went with a heavy heart into the country , and met the fox.
`` Thou knowest how to find all kinds of hiding-places ,"
said he ; `` I let thee live , now advise me where I shall hide myself so that the King 's daughter shall not discover me"
`` That 's a hard task ,"
answered the fox , looking very thoughtful.
At length he cried , `` I have it !"
and went with him to a spring , dipped himself in it , and came out as a stall-keeper in the market , and dealer in animals.
The youth had to dip himself in the water also , and was changed into a small sea-hare.
The merchant went into the town , and showed the pretty little animal , and many persons gathered together to see it.
At length the King 's daughter came likewise , and as she liked it very much , she bought it , and gave the merchant a good deal of money for it.
Before he gave it over to her , he said to it , `` When the King 's daughter goes to the window , creep quickly under the braids of he hair"
And now the time arrived when she was to search for him.
She went to one window after another in turn , from the first to the eleventh , and did not see him.
When she did not see him from the twelfth either , she was full of anxiety and anger , and shut it down with such violence that the glass in every window shivered into a thousand pieces , and the whole castle shook.
She went back and felt the sea-hare beneath the braids of her hair.
Then she seized it , and threw it on the ground exclaiming , `` Away with thee , get out of my sight !"
It ran to the merchant , and both of them hurried to the spring , wherein they plunged , and received back their true forms.
The youth thanked the fox , and said , `` The raven and the fish are idiots compared with thee ; thou knowest the right tune to play , there is no denying that !"
The youth went straight to the palace.
The princess was already expecting him , and accommodated herself to her destiny.
The wedding was solemnized , and now he was king , and lord of all the kingdom.
He never told her where he had concealed himself for the third time , and who had helped him , so she believed that he had done everything by his own skill , and she had a great respect for him , for she thought to herself , `` He is able to do more than I"
There was a certain village wherein no one lived but really rich peasants , and just one poor one , whom they called the little peasant.
He had not even so much as a cow , and still less money to buy one , and yet he and his wife did so wish to have one.
One day he said to her , `` Hark you , I have a good thought , there is our gossip the carpenter , he shall make us a wooden calf , and paint it brown , so that it look like any other , and in time it will certainly get big and be a cow"
The woman also liked the idea , and their gossip the carpenter cut and planed the calf , and painted it as it ought to be , and made it with its head hanging down as if it were eating.
Next morning when the cows were being driven out , the little peasant called the cow-herd and said , `` Look , I have a little calf there , but it is still small and has still to be carried"
The cow-herd said , `` All right , and took it in his arms and carried it to the pasture , and set it among the grass"
The little calf always remained standing like one which was eating , and the cow-herd said , `` It will soon run alone , just look how it eats already !"
At night when he was going to drive the herd home again , he said to the calf , `` If thou canst stand there and eat thy fill , thou canst also go on thy four legs ; I do n't care to drag thee home again in my arms"
But the little peasant stood at his door , and waited for his little calf , and when the cow-herd drove the cows through the village , and the calf was missing , he inquired where it was.
The cow-herd answered , `` It is still standing out there eating.
It would not stop and come with us"
But the little peasant said , `` Oh , but I must have my beast back again"
Then they went back to the meadow together , but some one had stolen the calf , and it was gone.
The cow-herd said , `` It must have run away"
The peasant , however , said , `` Do n't tell me that ,"
and led the cow-herd before the mayor , who for his carelessness condemned him to give the peasant a cow for the calf which had run away.
And now the little peasant and his wife had the cow for which they had so long wished , and they were heartily glad , but they had no food for it , and could give it nothing to eat , so it soon had to be killed.
They salted the flesh , and the peasant went into the town and wanted to sell the skin there , so that he might buy a new calf with the proceeds.
On the way he passed by a mill , and there sat a raven with broken wings , and out of pity he took him and wrapped him in the skin.
As , however , the weather grew so bad and there was a storm of rain and wind , he could go no farther , and turned back to the mill and begged for shelter.
The miller 's wife was alone in the house , and said to the peasant , `` Lay thyself on the straw there"
, and gave him a slice of bread with cheese on it.
The peasant ate it , and lay down with his skin beside him , and the woman thought , `` He is tired and has gone to sleep"
In the meantime came the parson ; the miller 's wife received him well , and said , `` My husband is out , so we will have a feast"
The peasant listened , and when he heard about feasting he was vexed that he had been forced to make shift with a slice of bread with cheese on it.
Then the woman served up four different things , roast meat , salad , cakes , and wine.
Just as they were about to sit down and eat , there was a knocking outside.
The woman said , `` Oh , heavens ! It is my husband !"
She quickly hid the roast meat inside the tiled stove , the wine under the pillow , the salad on the bed , the cakes under it , and the parson in the cupboard in the entrance.
Then she opened the door for her husband , and said , `` Thank heaven , thou art back again ! There is such a storm , it looks as if the world were coming to an end"
The miller saw the peasant lying on the straw , and asked , `` What is that fellow doing there ?"
`` Ah ,"
said the wife , `` the poor knave came in the storm and rain , and begged for shelter , so I gave him a bit of bread and cheese , and showed him where the straw was"
The man said , `` I have no objection , but be quick and get me something to eat"
The woman said , `` But I have nothing but bread and cheese"
`` I am contented with anything ,"
replied the husband , `` so far as I am concerned , bread and cheese will do ,"
and looked at the peasant and said , `` Come and eat some more with me"
The peasant did not require to be invited twice , but got up and ate.
After this the miller saw the skin in which the raven was , lying on the ground , and asked , `` What hast thou there ?"
The peasant answered , `` I have a soothsayer inside it"
`` Can he foretell anything to me ?"
said the miller.
`` Why not ?"
answered the peasant , `` but he only says four things , and the fifth he keeps to himself"
The miller was curious , and said , `` Let him foretell something for once"
Then the peasant pinched the raven 's head , so that he croaked and made a noise like krr , krr.
The miller said , `` What did he say ?"
The peasant answered , `` In the first place , he says that there is some wine hidden under the pillow"
`` Bless me !"
cried the miller , and went there and found the wine.
`` Now go on ,"
said he.
The peasant made the raven croak again , and said , `` In the second place , he says that there is some roast meat in the tiled stove"
`` Upon my word !"
cried the miller , and went thither , and found the roast meat.
The peasant made the raven prophesy still more , and said , `` Thirdly , he says that there is some salad on the bed"
`` That would be a fine thing !"
cried the miller , and went there and found the salad.
At last the peasant pinched the raven once more till he croaked , and said , `` Fourthly , he says that there are some cakes under the bed"
`` That would be a fine thing !"
cried the miller , and looked there , and found the cakes.
And now the two sat down to the table together , but the miller 's wife was frightened to death , and went to bed and took all the keys with her.
The miller would have liked much to know the fifth , but the little peasant said , `` First , we will quickly eat the four things , for the fifth is something bad"
So they ate , and after that they bargained how much the miller was to give for the fifth prophesy , until they agreed on three hundred thalers.
Then the peasant once more pinched the raven 's head till he croaked loudly.
The miller asked , `` What did he say ?"
The peasant replied , `` He says that the Devil is hiding outside there in the cupboard in the entrance"
The miller said , `` The Devil must go out ,"
and opened the house-door ; then the woman was forced to give up the keys , and the peasant unlocked the cupboard.
The parson ran out as fast as he could , and the miller said , `` It was true ; I saw the black rascal with my own eyes"
The peasant , however , made off next morning by daybreak with the three hundred thalers.
At home the small peasant gradually launched out ; he built a beautiful house , and the peasants said , `` The small peasant has certainly been to the place where golden snow falls , and people carry the gold home in shovels"
Then the small peasant was brought before the Mayor , and bidden to say from whence his wealth came.
He answered , `` I sold my cow 's skin in the town , for three hundred thalers"
When the peasants heard that , they too wished to enjoy this great profit , and ran home , killed all their cows , and stripped off their skins in order to sell them in the town to the greatest advantage.
The Mayor , however , said , `` But my servant must go first"
When she came to the merchant in the town , he did not give her more than two thalers for a skin , and when the others came , he did not give them so much , and said , `` What can I do with all these skins ?"
Then the peasants were vexed that the small peasant should have thus overreached them , wanted to take vengeance on him , and accused him of this treachery before the Mayor.
The innocent little peasant was unanimously sentenced to death , and was to be rolled into the water , in a barrel pierced full of holes.
He was led forth , and a priest was brought who was to say a mass for his soul.
The others were all obliged to retire to a distance , and when the peasant looked at the priest , he recognized the man who had been with the miller 's wife.
He said to him , `` I set you free from the cupboard , set me free from the barrel"
At this same moment up came , with a flock of sheep , the very shepherd who as the peasant knew had long been wishing to be Mayor , so he cried with all his might , `` No , I will not do it ; if the whole world insists on it , I will not do it !"
The shepherd hearing that , came up to him , and asked , `` What art thou about ? What is it that thou wilt not do ?"
The peasant said , `` They want to make me Mayor , if I will but put myself in the barrel , but I will not do it"
The shepherd said , `` If nothing more than that is needful in order to be Mayor , I would get into the barrel at once"
The peasant said , `` If thou wilt get in , thou wilt be Mayor"
The shepherd was willing , and got in , and the peasant shut the top down on him ; then he took the shepherd 's flock for himself , and drove it away.
The parson went to the crowd , and declared that the mass had been said.
Then they came and rolled the barrel towards the water.
When the barrel began to roll , the shepherd cried , `` I am quite willing to be Mayor"
They believed no otherwise than that it was the peasant who was saying this , and answered , `` That is what we intend , but first thou shalt look about thee a little down below there ,"
and they rolled the barrel down into the water.
After that the peasants went home , and as they were entering the village , the small peasant also came quietly in , driving a flock of sheep and looking quite contented.
Then the peasants were astonished , and said , `` Peasant , from whence comest thou ? Hast thou come out of the water ?"
`` Yes , truly ,"
replied the peasant , `` I sank deep , deep down , until at last I got to the bottom ; I pushed the bottom out of the barrel , and crept out , and there were pretty meadows on which a number of lambs were feeding , and from thence I brought this flock away with me"
Said the peasants , `` Are there any more there ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
said he , `` more than I could do anything with"
Then the peasants made up their minds that they too would fetch some sheep for themselves , a flock apiece , but the Mayor said , `` I come first"
So they went to the water together , and just then there were some of the small fleecy clouds in the blue sky , which are called little lambs , and they were reflected in the water , whereupon the peasants cried , `` We already see the sheep down below !"
The Mayor pressed forward and said , `` I will go down first , and look about me , and if things promise well I 'll call you"
So he jumped in ; splash ! went the water ; he made a sound as if he were calling them , and the whole crowd plunged in after him as one man.
Then the entire village was dead , and the small peasant , as sole heir , became a rich man"
There was once upon a time a miller who lived with his wife in great contentment.
They had money and land , and their prosperity increased year by year more and more.
But ill-luck comes like a thief in the night , as their wealth had increased so did it again decrease , year by year , and at last the miller could hardly call the mill in which he lived , his own.
He was in great distress , and when he lay down after his day 's work , found no rest , but tossed about in his bed , full of care.
One morning he rose before daybreak and went out into the open air , thinking that perhaps there his heart might become lighter.
As he was stepping over the mill - dam the first sunbeam was just breaking forth , and he heard a rippling sound in the pond.
He turned round and perceived a beautiful woman , rising slowly out of the water.
Her long hair , which she was holding off her shoulders with her soft hands , fell down on both sides , and covered her white body.
He soon saw that she was the Nix of the Mill-pond , and in his fright did not know whether he should run away or stay where he was.
But the nix made her sweet voice heard , called him by his name , and asked him why he was so sad ? The miller was at first struck dumb , but when he heard her speak so kindly , he took heart , and told her how he had formerly lived in wealth and happiness , but that now he was so poor that he did not know what to do.
`` Be easy ,"
answered the nix , `` I will make thee richer and happier than thou hast ever been before , only thou must promise to give me the young thing which has just been born in thy house"
`` What else can that be ,"
thought the miller , `` but a young puppy or kitten ?"
and he promised her what she desired.
The nix descended into the water again , and he hurried back to his mill , consoled and in good spirits.
He had not yet reached it , when the maid-servant came out of the house , and cried to him to rejoice , for his wife had given birth to a little boy.
The miller stood as if struck by lightning ; he saw very well that the cunning nix had been aware of it , and had cheated him.
Hanging his head , he went up to his wife 's bedside and when she said , `` Why dost thou not rejoice over the fine boy ?"
he told her what had befallen him , and what kind of a promise he had given to the nix.
`` Of what use to me are riches and prosperity ?"
he added , `` if I am to lose my child ; but what can I do ?"
Even the relations , who had come thither to wish them joy , did not know what to say.
In the meantime prosperity again returned to the miller 's house.
All that he undertook succeeded , it was as if presses and coffers filled themselves of their own accord , and as if money multiplied nightly in the cupboards.
It was not long before his wealth was greater than it had ever been before.
But he could not rejoice over it untroubled , for the bargain which he had made with the nix tormented his soul.
Whenever he passed the mill-pond , he feared she might ascend and remind him of his debt.
He never let the boy himself go near the water.
`` Beware ,"
he said to him , `` if thou dost but touch the water , a hand will rise , seize thee , and draw thee down"
But as year after year went by and the nix did not show herself again , the miller began to feel at ease.
The boy grew up to be a youth and was apprenticed to a huntsman.
When he had learned everything , and had become an excellent huntsman , the lord of the village took him into his service.
In the village lived a beautiful and true-hearted maiden , who pleased the huntsman , and when his master perceived that , he gave him a little house , the two were married , lived peacefully and happily , and loved each other with all their hearts.
One day the huntsman was chasing a roe ; and when the animal turned aside from the forest into the open country , he pursued it and at last shot it.
He did not notice that he was now in the neighborhood of the dangerous mill-pond , and went , after he had disembowelled the stag , to the water , in order to wash his blood-stained hands.
Scarcely , however , had he dipped them in than the nix ascended , smilingly wound her dripping arms around him , and drew him quickly down under the waves , which closed over him.
When it was evening , and the huntsman did not return home , his wife became alarmed.
She went out to seek him , and as he had often told her that he had to be on his guard against the snares of the nix , and dared not venture into the neighborhood of the mill-pond , she already suspected what had happened.
She hastened to the water , and when she found his hunting-pouch lying on the shore , she could no longer have any doubt of the misfortune.
Lamenting her sorrow , and wringing her hands , she called on her beloved by name , but in vain.
She hurried across to the other side of the pond , and called him anew ; she reviled the nix with harsh words , but no answer followed.
The surface of the water remained calm , only the crescent moon stared steadily back at her.
The poor woman did not leave the pond.
With hasty steps , she paced round and round it , without resting a moment , sometimes in silence , sometimes uttering a loud cry , sometimes softly sobbing.
At last her strength came to an end , she sank down to the ground and fell into a heavy sleep.
Presently a dream took possession of her.
She was anxiously climbing upwards between great masses of rock ; thorns and briars caught her feet , the rain beat in her face , and the wind tossed her long hair about.
When she had reached the summit , quite a different sight presented itself to her ; the sky was blue , the air soft , the ground sloped gently downwards , and on a green meadow , gay with flowers of every color , stood a pretty cottage.
She went up to it and opened the door ; there sat an old woman with white hair , who beckoned to her kindly.
At that very moment , the poor woman awoke , day had already dawned , and she at once resolved to act in accordance with her dream.
She laboriously climbed the mountain ; everything was exactly as she had seen it in the night.
The old woman received her kindly , and pointed out a chair on which she might sit.
`` Thou must have met with a misfortune ,"
she said , `` since thou hast sought out my lonely cottage"
With tears , the woman related what had befallen her.
`` Be comforted ,"
said the old woman , `` I will help thee.
Here is a golden comb for thee.
Tarry till the full moon has risen , then go to the mill-pond , seat thyself on the shore , and comb thy long black hair with this comb.
When thou hast done , lay it down on the bank , and thou wilt see what will happen"
The woman returned home , but the time till the full moon came , passed slowly.
At last the shining disc appeared in the heavens , then she went out to the mill-pond , sat down and combed her long black hair with the golden comb , and when she had finished , she laid it down at the water 's edge.
It was not long before there was a movement in the depths , a wave rose , rolled to the shore , and bore the comb away with it.
In not more than the time necessary for the comb to sink to the bottom , the surface of the water parted , and the head of the huntsman arose.
He did not speak , but looked at his wife with sorrowful glances.
At the same instant , a second wave came rushing up , and covered the man 's head.
All had vanished , the mill-pond lay peaceful as before , and nothing but the face of the full moon shone on it.
Full of sorrow , the woman went back , but again the dream showed her the cottage of the old woman.
Next morning she again set out and complained of her woes to the wise woman.
The old woman gave her a golden flute , and said , `` Tarry till the full moon comes again , then take this flute ; play a beautiful air on it , and when thou hast finished , lay it on the sand ; then thou wilt see what will happen"
The wife did as the old woman told her.
No sooner was the flute lying on the sand than there was a stirring in the depths , and a wave rushed up and bore the flute away with it.
Immediately afterwards the water parted , and not only the head of the man , but half of his body also arose.
He stretched out his arms longingly towards her , but a second wave came up , covered him , and drew him down again.
`` Alas , what does it profit me ?"
said the unhappy woman , `` that I should see my beloved , only to lose him again !"
Despair filled her heart anew , but the dream led her a third time to the house of the old woman.
She set out , and the wise woman gave her a golden spinning-wheel , consoled her and said , `` All is not yet fulfilled , tarry until the time of the full moon , then take the spinning-wheel , seat thyself on the shore , and spin the spool full , and when thou hast done that , place the spinning-wheel near the water , and thou wilt see what will happen"
The woman obeyed all she said exactly ; as soon as the full moon showed itself , she carried the golden spinning-wheel to the shore , and span industriously until the flax came to an end , and the spool was quite filled with the threads.
No sooner was the wheel standing on the shore than there was a more violent movement than before in the depths of the pond , and a mighty wave rushed up , and bore the wheel away with it.
Immediately the head and the whole body of the man rose into the air , in a water-spout.
He quickly sprang to the shore , caught his wife by the hand and fled.
But they had scarcely gone a very little distance , when the whole pond rose with a frightful roar , and streamed out over the open country.
The fugitives already saw death before their eyes , when the woman in her terror implored the help of the old woman , and in an instant they were transformed , she into a toad , he into a frog.
The flood which had overtaken them could not destroy them , but it tore them apart and carried them far away.
When the water had dispersed and they both touched dry land again , they regained their human form , but neither knew where the other was ; they found themselves among strange people , who did not know their native land.
High mountains and deep valleys lay between them.
In order to keep themselves alive , they were both obliged to tend sheep.
For many long years they drove their flocks through field and forest and were full of sorrow and longing.
When spring had once more broken forth on the earth , they both went out one day with their flocks , and as chance would have it , they drew near each other.
They met in a valley , but did not recognize each other ; yet they rejoiced that they were no longer so lonely.
Henceforth they each day drove their flocks to the same place ; they did not speak much , but they felt comforted.
One evening when the full moon was shining in the sky , and the sheep were already at rest , the shepherd pulled the flute out of his pocket , and played on it a beautiful but sorrowful air.
When he had finished he saw that the shepherdess was weeping bitterly.
`` Why art thou weeping ?"
he asked.
`` Alas ,"
answered she , `` thus shone the full moon when I played this air on the flute for the last time , and the head of my beloved rose out of the water"
He looked at her , and it seemed as if a veil fell from his eyes , and he recognized his dear wife , and when she looked at him , and the moon shone in his face she knew him also.
They embraced and kissed each other , and no one need ask if they were happy"
In a country there was a person_0 who had an only son who every day went out to hunt.
One day the Rani , his mother , said to him , `` You can hunt wherever you like on these three sides ; but you must never go to the fourth side"
This she said because she knew if he went on the fourth side he would hear of the beautiful Princess Labam , and that then he would leave his father and mother and seek for the princess.
The young prince listened to his mother , and obeyed her for some time ; but one day , when he was hunting on the three sides where he was allowed to go , he remembered what she had said to him about the fourth side , and he determined to go and see why she had forbidden him to hunt on that side.
When he got there , he found himself in a jungle , and nothing in the jungle but a quantity of parrots , who lived in it.
The young person_0 shot at some of them , and at once they all flew away up to the sky.
All , that is , but one , and this was their person_0 , who was called Hiraman parrot.
When Hiraman parrot found himself left alone , he called out to the other parrots , `` Do n't fly away and leave me alone when the person_0 's son shoots.
If you desert me like this , I will tell the Princess Labam"
Then the parrots all flew back to their person_0 , chattering.
The prince was greatly surprised , and said , `` Why , these birds can talk !"
Then he said to the parrots , `` Who is the Princess Labam ? Where does she live ?"
But the parrots would not tell him where she lived.
`` You can never get to the Princess Labam 's country"
That is all they would say.
The prince grew very sad when they would not tell him anything more ; and he threw his gun away , and went home.
When he got home , he would not speak or eat , but lay on his bed for four or five days , and seemed very ill.
.
At last he told his father and mother that he wanted to go and see the Princess Labam.
`` I must go ,"
he said ; `` I must see what she is like.
Tell me where her country is"
`` We do not know where it is ,"
answered his father and mother.
`` Then I must go and look for it ,"
said the prince.
`` No , no ,"
they said , `` you must not leave us.
You are our only son.
Stay with us.
You will never find the Princess Labam"
`` I must try and find her ,"
said the prince.
`` Perhaps God will show me the way.
If I live and I find her , I will come back to you ; but perhaps I shall die , and then I shall never see you again.
Still I must go"
So they had to let him go , though they cried very much at parting with him.
His father gave him fine clothes to wear , and a fine horse.
And he took his gun , and his bow and arrows , and a great many other weapons , `` for ,"
he said , `` I may want them"
His father , too , gave him plenty of rupees.
Then he himself got his horse all ready for the journey , and he said good-bye to his father and mother ; and his mother took her handkerchief and wrapped some sweetmeats in it , and gave it to her son.
`` My child ,"
she said to him , `` When you are hungry eat some of these sweetmeats"
He then set out on his journey , and rode on and on till he came to a jungle in which were a tank and shady trees.
He bathed himself and his horse in the tank , and then sat down under a tree.
`` Now ,"
he said to himself , `` I will eat some of the sweetmeats my mother gave me , and I will drink some water , and then I will continue my journey"
He opened his handkerchief , and took out a sweetmeat.
He found an ant in it.
He took out another.
There was an ant in that one too.
So he laid the two sweetmeats on the ground , and he took out another , and another , and another , until he had taken them all out ; but in each he found an ant.
`` Never mind ,"
he said , `` I wo n't eat the sweetmeats ; the ants shall eat them"
Then the Ant-person_0 came and stood before him and said , `` You have been good to us.
If ever you are in trouble , think of me and we will come to you"
The person_0 's son thanked him , mounted his horse and continued his journey.
He rode on and on until he came to another jungle , and there he saw a tiger who had a thorn in his foot , and was roaring loudly from the pain.
`` Why do you roar like that ?"
said the young person_0.
`` What is the matter with you ?"
`` I have had a thorn in my foot for twelve years ,"
answered the tiger , `` and it hurts me so ; that is why I roar"
`` Well ,"
said the person_0 's son , `` I will take it out for you.
But perhaps , as you are a tiger , when I have made you well , you will eat me ?"
`` Oh , no ,"
said the tiger , `` I wo n't eat you.
Do make me well"
Then the prince took a little knife from his pocket , and cut the thorn out of the tiger 's foot ; but when he cut , the tiger roared louder than ever -- so loud that his wife heard him in the next jungle , and came bounding along to see what was the matter.
The tiger saw her coming , and hid the prince in the jungle , so that she should not see him.
`` What man hurt you that you roared so loud ?"
said the wife.
`` No one hurt me ,"
answered the husband ; `` but a person_0 's son came and took the thorn out of my foot"
`` Where is he ? Show him to me ,"
said his wife.
`` If you promise not to kill him , I will call him ,"
said the tiger.
`` I wo n't kill him ; only let me see him ,"
answered his wife.
Then the tiger called the person_0 's son , and when he came the tiger and his wife made him a great many salaams.
Then they gave him a good dinner , and he stayed with them for three days.
Every day he looked at the tiger 's foot , and the third day it was quite healed.
Then he said good-bye to the tigers , and the tiger said to him , `` If ever you are in trouble , think of me , and we will come to you"
The person_0 's son rode on and on till he came to a third jungle.
Here he found four fakirs whose teacher and master had died , and had left four things , -- a bed , which carried whoever sat on it whithersoever he wished to go ; a bag , that gave its owner whatever he wanted , jewels , food , or clothes ; a stone bowl that gave its owner as much water as he wanted , no matter how far he might be from a tank ; and a stick and rope , to which its owner had only to say , if any one came to make war on him , `` Stick , beat as many men and soldiers as are here ,"
and the stick would beat them and the rope would tie them up.
The four fakirs were quarrelling over these four things.
One said , `` I want this ;"
another said , `` You can not have it , for I want it ;"
and so on.
The person_0 's son said to them , `` Do not quarrel for these things.
I will shoot four arrows in four different directions.
Whichever of you gets to my first arrow , shall have the first thing -- the bed.
Whosoever gets to the second arrow , shall have the second thing -- the bag.
He who gets to the third arrow , shall have the third thing -- the bowl.
And he who gets to the fourth arrow , shall have the last things -- the stick and rope"
To this they agreed , and the prince shot off his first arrow.
Away raced the fakirs to get it.
When they brought it back to him he shot off the second , and when they had found and brought it to him he shot off his third , and when they had brought him the third he shot off the fourth.
While they were away looking for the fourth arrow the person_0 's son let his horse loose in the jungle , and sat on the bed , taking the bowl , the stick and rope , and the bag with him.
Then he said , `` Bed , I wish to go to the Princess Labam 's country"
The little bed instantly rose up into the air and began to fly , and it flew and flew till it came to the Princess Labam 's country , where it settled on the ground.
The person_0 's son asked some men he saw , `` Whose country is this ?"
`` The Princess Labam 's country ,"
they answered.
Then the prince went on till he came to a house where he saw an old woman.
`` Who are you ?"
she said.
`` Where do you come from ?"
`` I come from a far country ,"
he said ; `` do let me stay with you to - night"
`` No ,"
she answered , `` I can not let you stay with me ; for our king has ordered that men from other countries may not stay in his country.
You can not stay in my house"
`` You are my aunty ,"
said the prince ; `` let me remain with you for this one night.
You see it is evening , and if I go into the jungle , then the wild beasts will eat me"
`` Well ,"
said the old woman , `` you may stay here to-night ; but to-morrow morning you must go away , for if the king hears you have passed the night in my house , he will have me seized and put into prison"
Then she took him into her house , and the person_0 's son was very glad.
The old woman began preparing dinner , but he stopped her , `` Aunty ,"
he said , `` I will give you food"
He put his hand into his bag , saying , `` Bag , I want some dinner ,"
and the bag gave him instantly a delicious dinner , served up on two gold plates.
The old woman and the person_0 's son then dined together.
When they had finished eating , the old woman said , `` Now I will fetch some water"
`` Do n't go ,"
said the prince.
`` You shall have plenty of water directly"
So he took his bowl and said to it , `` Bowl , I want some water ,"
and then it filled with water.
When it was full , the prince cried out , `` Stop , bowl ,"
and the bowl stopped filling.
`` See , aunty ,"
he said , `` with this bowl I can always get as much water as I want"
By this time night had come.
`` Aunty ,"
said the person_0 's son , `` why do n't you light a lamp ?"
`` There is no need ,"
she said.
`` Our king has forbidden the people in his country to light any lamps ; for , as soon as it is dark , his daughter , the Princess Labam , comes and sits on her roof , and she shines so that she lights up all the country and our houses , and we can see to do our work as if it were day"
When it was quite black night the princess got up.
She dressed herself in her rich clothes and jewels , and rolled up her hair , and across her head she put a band of diamonds and pearls.
Then she shone like the moon , and her beauty made night day.
She came out of her room , and sat on the roof of her palace.
In the daytime she never came out of her house ; she only came out at night.
All the people in her father 's country then went about their work and finished it.
The person_0 's son watched the princess quietly , and was very happy.
He said to himself , `` How lovely she is !"
At midnight , when everybody had gone to bed , the princess came down from her roof , and went to her room ; and when she was in bed and asleep , the person_0 's son got up softly , and sat on his bed.
`` Bed ,"
he said to it , `` I want to go to the Princess Labam 's bed-room"
So the little bed carried him to the room where she lay fast asleep.
The young person_0 took his bag and said , `` I want a great deal of betel - leaf ,"
and it at once gave him quantities of betel-leaf.
This he laid near the princess 's bed , and then his little bed carried him back to the old woman 's house.
Next morning all the princess 's servants found the betel-leaf , and began to eat it.
`` Where did you get all that betel-leaf ?"
asked the princess.
`` We found it near your bed ,"
answered the servants.
Nobody knew the prince had come in the night and put it all there.
In the morning the old woman came to the person_0 's son.
`` Now it is morning ,"
she said , `` and you must go ; for if the king finds out all I have done for you , he will seize me"
`` I am ill to-day , dear aunty ,"
said the prince ; `` do let me stay till to-morrow morning"
`` Good ,"
said the old woman.
So he stayed , and they took their dinner out of the bag , and the bowl gave them water.
When night came the princess got up and sat on her roof , and at twelve o'clock , when every one was in bed , she went to her bed-room , and was soon fast asleep.
Then the person_0 's son sat on his bed , and it carried him to the princess.
He took his bag and said , `` Bag , I want a most lovely shawl"
It gave him a splendid shawl , and he spread it over the princess as she lay asleep.
Then he went back to the old woman 's house and slept till morning.
In the morning , when the princess saw the shawl she was delighted.
`` See , mother ,"
she said ; `` Khuda must have given me this shawl , it is so beautiful"
Her mother was very glad too.
`` Yes , my child ,"
she said ; `` Khuda must have given you this splendid shawl"
When it was morning the old woman said to the person_0 's son , `` Now you must really go"
`` Aunty ,"
he answered , `` I am not well enough yet.
Let me stay a few days longer.
I will remain hidden in your house , so that no one may see me"
So the old woman let him stay.
When it was black night , the princess put on her lovely clothes and jewels , and sat on her roof.
At midnight she went to her room and went to sleep.
Then the person_0 's son sat on his bed and flew to her bed-room.
There he said to his bag , `` Bag , I want a very , very beautiful ring"
The bag gave him a glorious ring.
Then he took the Princess Labam 's hand gently to put on the ring , and she started up very much frightened.
`` Who are you ?"
she said to the prince.
`` Where do you come from ? Why do you come to my room ?"
`` Do not be afraid , princess ,"
he said ; `` I am no thief.
I am a great person_0 's son.
Hiraman parrot , who lives in the jungle where I went to hunt , told me your name , and then I left my father and mother , and came to see you"
`` Well ,"
said the princess , `` as you are the son of such a great person_0 , I will not have you killed , and I will tell my father and mother that I wish to marry you"
The prince then returned to the old woman 's house ; and when morning came the princess said to her mother , `` The son of a great person_0 has come to this country , and I wish to marry him"
Her mother told this to the king.
`` Good ,"
said the king ; `` but if this person_0 's son wishes to marry my daughter , he must first do whatever I bid him.
If he fails I will kill him.
I will give him eighty pounds weight of mustard seed , and out of this he must crush the oil in one day.
If he can not do this he shall die"
In the morning the person_0 's son told the old woman that he intended to marry the princess.
`` Oh ,"
said the old woman , `` go away from this country , and do not think of marrying her.
A great many person_0s and person_0s ' sons have come here to marry her , and her father has had them all killed.
He says whoever wishes to marry his daughter must first do whatever he bids him.
If he can , then he shall marry the princess ; if he can not , the king will have him killed.
But no one can do the things the king tells him to do ; so all the person_0s and person_0s ' sons who have tried have been put to death.
You will be killed too , if you try.
Do go away"
But the prince would not listen to anything she said.
The king sent for the prince to the old woman 's house , and his servants brought the person_0 's son to the king 's court-house to the king.
There the king gave him eighty pounds of mustard seed , and told him to crush all the oil out of it that day , and bring it next morning to him to the court-house.
`` Whoever wishes to marry my daughter ,"
he said to the prince , `` must first do all I tell him.
If he can not , then I have him killed.
So if you can not crush all the oil out of this mustard seed , you will die"
The prince was very sorry when he heard this.
`` How can I crush the oil out of all this mustard seed in one day ?"
he said to himself ; `` and if I do not , the king will kill me"
He took the mustard seed to the old woman 's house , and did not know what to do.
At last he remembered the Ant-person_0 , and the moment he did so , the Ant-person_0 and his ants came to him.
`` Why do you look so sad ?"
said the Ant-person_0.
The prince showed him the mustard seed , and said to him , `` How can I crush the oil out of all this mustard seed in one day ? And if I do not take the oil to the king to-morrow morning , he will kill me"
`` Be happy ,"
said the Ant-person_0 ; `` lie down and sleep ; we will crush all the oil out for you during the day , and to-morrow morning you shall take it to the king"
The person_0 's son lay down and slept , and the ants crushed out the oil for him.
The prince was very glad when he saw the oil.
The next morning he took it to the court-house to the king.
But the king said , `` You can not yet marry my daughter.
If you wish to do so , you must first fight with my two demons and kill them"
The king a long time ago had caught two demons , and then , as he did not know what to do with them , he had shut them up in a cage.
He was afraid to let them loose for fear they would eat up all the people in his country ; and he did not know how to kill them.
So all the kings and kings ' sons who wanted to marry the Princess Labam had to fight with these demons ; `` for ,"
said the king to himself , `` perhaps the demons may be killed , and then I shall be rid of them"
When he heard of the demons the person_0 's son was very sad.
`` What can I do ?"
he said to himself.
`` How can I fight with these two demons ?"
Then he thought of his tiger : and the tiger and his wife came to him and said , `` Why are you so sad ?"
The person_0 's son answered , `` The king has ordered me to fight with his two demons and kill them.
How can I do this ?"
`` Do not be frightened ,"
said the tiger.
`` Be happy.
I and my wife will fight with them for you"
Then the person_0 's son took out of his bag two splendid coats.
They were all gold and silver , and covered with pearls and diamonds.
These he put on the tigers to make them beautiful , and he took them to the king , and said to him , `` May these tigers fight your demons for me ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the king , who did not care in the least who killed his demons , provided they were killed.
`` Then call your demons ,"
said the person_0 's son , `` and these tigers will fight them"
The king did so , and the tigers and the demons fought and fought until the tigers had killed the demons.
`` That is good ,"
said the king.
`` But you must do something else before I give you my daughter.
Up in the sky I have a kettle-drum.
You must go and beat it.
If you can not do this , I will kill you"
The person_0 's son thought of his little bed ; so he went to the old woman 's house and sat on his bed.
`` Little bed ,"
he said , `` up in the sky is the king 's kettle-drum.
I want to go to it"
The bed flew up with him , and the person_0 's son beat the drum , and the king heard him.
Still , when he came down , the king would not give him his daughter.
`` You have ,"
he said to the prince , `` done the three things I told you to do ; but you must do one thing more"
`` If I can , I will ,"
said the person_0 's son.
Then the king showed him the trunk of a tree that was lying near his court-house.
It was a very , very thick trunk.
He gave the prince a wax hatchet , and said , `` Tomorrow morning you must cut this trunk in two with this wax hatchet"
The person_0 's son went back to the old woman 's house.
He was very sad , and thought that now the person_0 would certainly kill him.
`` I had his oil crushed out by the ants ,"
he said to himself.
`` I had his demons killed by the tigers.
My bed helped me to beat his kettle-drum.
But now what can I do ? How can I cut that thick tree-trunk in two with a wax hatchet ?"
At night he went on his bed to see the princess.
`` To-morrow ,"
he said to her , `` your father will kill me"
`` Why ?"
asked the princess.
`` He has told me to cut a thick tree-trunk in two with a wax hatchet.
How can I ever do that ?"
said the person_0 's son.
`` Do not be afraid ,"
said the princess ; `` do as I bid you , and you will cut it in two quite easily"
Then she pulled out a hair from her head , and gave it to the prince.
`` To-morrow ,"
she said , `` when no one is near you , you must say to the tree-trunk , ` The Princess Labam commands you to let yourself be cut in two by this hair.
' Then stretch the hair down the edge of the wax hatchet 's blade"
The prince next day did exactly as the princess had told him ; and the minute the hair that was stretched down the edge of the hatchet-blade touched the tree-trunk it split into two pieces.
The king said , `` Now you can marry my daughter"
Then the wedding took place.
All the person_0s and kings of the countries round were asked to come to it , and there were great rejoicings.
After a few days the prince 's son said to his wife , `` Let us go to my father 's country"
The Princess Labam 's father gave them a quantity of camels and horses and rupees and servants ; and they traveled in great state to the prince 's country , where they lived happily.
The prince always kept his bag , bowl , bed , and stick ; only , as no one ever came to make war on him , he never needed to use the stick"
There was once upon a time a young peasant named Hans , whose uncle wanted to find him a rich wife.
He therefore seated Hans behind the stove , and had it made very hot.
Then he fetched a pot of milk and plenty of white bread , gave him a bright newly-coined farthing in his hand , and said , `` Hans , hold that farthing fast , crumble the white bread into the milk , and stay where you are , and do not stir from that spot till I come back"
`` Yes ,"
said Hans , `` I will do all that"
Then the wooer put on a pair of old patched trousers , went to a rich peasant 's daughter in the next village , and said , `` Wo n't you marry my nephew Hans -- you will get an honest and sensible man who will suit you ?"
The covetous father asked , `` How is it with regard to his means ? Has he bread to break ?"
`` Dear friend ,"
replied the wooer , `` my young nephew has a snug berth , a nice bit of money in hand , and plenty of bread to break , besides he has quite as many patches as I have ,"
-LRB- and as he spoke , he slapped the patches on his trousers , but in that district small pieces of land were called patches also.
-RRB- `` If you will give yourself the trouble to go home with me , you shall see at once that all is as I have said"
Then the miser did not want to lose this good opportunity , and said , `` If that is the case , I have nothing further to say against the marriage"
So the wedding was celebrated on the appointed day , and when the young wife went out of doors to see the bridegroom 's property , Hans took off his Sunday coat and put on his patched smock-frock and said , `` I might spoil my good coat"
Then together they went out and wherever a boundary line came in sight , or fields and meadows were divided from each other , Hans pointed with his finger and then slapped either a large or a small patch on his smock-frock , and said , `` That patch is mine , and that too , my dearest , just look at it ,"
meaning thereby that his wife should not stare at the broad land , but look at his garment , which was his own.
`` Were you indeed at the wedding ?"
`` Yes , indeed I was there , and in full dress.
My head-dress was of snow ; then the sun came out , and it was melted.
My coat was of cobwebs , and I had to pass by some thorns which tore it off me , my shoes were of glass , and I pushed against a stone and they said , `` Klink ,"
and broke in two"
by Indian Writer Once upon a time the Bodhisatta was a person_1 , and lived in a nest - basket which a rich man 's cook had hung up in the kitchen , in order to earn merit by it.
A greedy person_0 , flying near , saw all sorts of delicate food lying about in the kitchen , and fell a-hungering after it.
`` How in the world can I get some ?"
thought he ? At last he hit upon a plan.
When the person_1 went to search for food , behind him , following , following , came the person_0.
`` What do you want , Mr.
person_0 ? You and I do n't feed alike"
`` Ah , but I like you and your ways ! Let me be your chum , and let us feed together"
The person_1 agreed , and they went on in company.
The person_0 pretended to feed along with the person_1 , but ever and anon he would turn back , peck to bits some heap of cow-dung , and eat a fat worm.
When he had got a bellyful of them , up he flies , as pert as you like : `` Hullo , Mr.
person_1 , what a time you take over your meal ! One ought to draw the line somewhere.
Let 's be going home before it is too late"
And so they did.
The cook saw that his person_1 had brought a friend , and hung up another basket for him.
A few days afterwards there was a great purchase of fish which came to the rich man 's kitchen.
How the person_0 longed for some ! So there he lay , from early morn , groaning and making a great noise.
Says the person_1 to the person_0 : `` Come , Sir person_0 , and get your breakfast !"
' `` Oh dear ! oh dear ! I have such a fit of indigestion !"
says he.
`` Nonsense ! person_0s never have indigestion ,"
said the person_1.
`` If you eat a lamp-wick , that stays in your stomach a little while ; but anything else is digested in a trice , as soon as you eat it.
Now do what I tell you ; do n't behave in this way just for seeing a little fish"
`` Why do you say that , master ? I have indigestion"
`` Well , be careful ,"
said the person_1 , and flew away.
The cook prepared all the dishes , and then stood at the kitchen door , wiping the sweat off his body.
`` Now 's my time !"
thought Mr.
person_0 , and alighted on a dish containing some dainty food.
Click ! The cook heard it , and looked round.
Ah ! he caught the person_0 , and plucked all the feathers out of his head , all but one tuft ; he powdered ginger and cummin , mixed it up with butter-milk , and rubbed it well all over the bird 's body.
`` That 's for spoiling my master 's dinner and making me throw it away !"
said he , and threw him into his basket.
Oh , how it hurt ! By-and-by the person_1 came in , and saw the person_0 lying there , making a great noise.
He made great game of him , and repeated a verse of poetry : `` Who is this tufted crane I see Lying where he 's no right to be ? Come out ! my friend , the crow is near , And he may do you harm , I fear !"
To this the person_0 answered with another : `` No tufted crane am I -- no , no ! I 'm nothing but a greedy crow.
I would not do as I was told , So now I 'm plucked , as you behold"
And the person_1 rejoined with a third verse : `` You 'll come to grief again , I know -- It is your nature to do so ; If people make a dish of meat , ` Tis not for little birds to eat"
Then the person_1 flew away , saying : `` I ca n't live with this creature any longer"
And the person_0 lay there groaning till he died"
person_0 Coon was very fond of squirrels.
And you may think it strange when I tell you that not one of the squirrels anywhere around Blue Mountain was the least bit fond of person_0 Coon.
But when I say that person_0 Coon was fond of squirrels , I mean that he liked to eat them.
So of course you will understand now why the squirrels did not care for person_0 at all.
In fact , they usually kept just as far away from him as they could.
It was easy , in the daytime , for the squirrels to keep out of person_0 's way , when he wandered through the tree-tops , for the squirrels were much sprier than person_0.
But at night -- ah ! that was a very different matter.
For person_0 Coon 's eyes were even sharper in the dark than they were in the daylight ; but the poor squirrels were just as blind as you are when you are safely tucked in bed and the light is put out.
Yes -- when the squirrels were in bed at night , up in their nests in the trees , they could see very little.
And you could n't say they were SAFE in bed , because they never knew when person_0 Coon , or his mother , or his brother , or one of his sisters , or some cousin of his , might come along and catch them before they knew it.
person_0 thought it great sport to hunt squirrels at night.
Whenever he tried it he usually managed to get a good meal.
And after he had almost forgotten about the fright the goshawk had given him in the tall hemlock he began to roam through the tree-tops every night in search of squirrels and sleeping birds.
But a night came at last when person_0 was well punished for hunting squirrels.
He had climbed half-way to the top of a big chestnut tree , when he spied a hole in the trunk.
He rather thought that some squirrels lived inside that hole.
And as he listened for a few seconds he could hear something moving about inside.
Yes ! person_0 was sure that there was a squirrel in there -- probably several squirrels.
person_0 Coon 's eyes turned green.
It was a way they had , whenever he was about to eat anything , or whenever he played with his brother Blackie , or Fluffy and Cutey , his sisters ; or whenever he was frightened.
And now person_0 was so sure that he was going to have a fine lunch that his eyes turned as green as a cat 's.
He reached a paw inside the hole and felt all around.
WOW ! person_0 gave a cry ; and he pulled his paw out much faster than he had put it in.
Something had given him a cruel dig.
And in a jiffy person_0 saw what that `` something"
was.
It was a grumpy old tramp coon , whom person_0 had never seen before.
`` What do you mean , you young rascal , by disturbing me like this ?"
the ragged stranger cried.
`` Please , sir , I never knew it was you ,"
person_0 stammered.
`` Never knew it was me ! Who did you think it was ?"
`` A -- a squirrel !"
person_0 said faintly.
And he whimpered a little , because his paw hurt him.
`` Ho , ho ! That 's a good one ! That 's a good joke !"
The tramp coon laughed heartily.
And then he scowled so fiercely that poor person_0 nearly tumbled out of the tree.
`` You go home ,"
he said to person_0.
`` And do n't you let me catch you around here again.
You hear ?"
`` Yes , sir !"
person_0 said.
And home he went.
And you may be sure that he let THAT tree alone after that.
He never went near it again"
When Jasper Jay told person_0 Coon about Farmer Green 's forty fat turkeys person_0 felt hungrier than ever.
`` Oh ! I must n't go near Farmer Green 's house !"
he said.
`` My mother told me to keep away from there.
What time did you say the turkeys go to roost ?"
`` Oh ! they go to roost every night at sundown ,"
Jasper Jay explained.
`` And there they sit , up in the tree , all night long.
They 're fast asleep.
And you would have no trouble at all in catching as many as you wanted.
But of course , if you 're afraid -- why there 's no use of MY talking about it.
There 's a plenty of other coons in these woods who 'd be glad to know about those turkeys.
And maybe they 'd have the manners to say ` Thank you ! ' too"
And with a hoarse , sneering laugh Jasper Jay flew away.
That was enough for person_0.
He made up his mind that he would show Jasper Jay that HE was not afraid.
And he wanted a turkey to eat , too.
He said nothing to his mother about Jasper 's news.
But that very night , when the moon came up , and the lights in Farmer Green 's house were all out , person_0 Coon went stealing across the fields.
He was not afraid , for he knew that Farmer Green and all his family were in their beds.
And it was so cold that person_0 felt sure that Farmer Green 's dogs would be inside their kennels.
person_0 did not intend to make any noise.
The turkeys were asleep -- so Jasper Jay had told him -- and he expected to grab one of them so swiftly and silently that the other turkeys would never know it.
When person_0 Coon came to Farmer Green 's yard he had no trouble at all in finding the spreading oak.
He could see the turkeys plainly where they dozed on the bare branches.
And in less time than it takes to tell it person_0 had climbed the tree.
On the very lowest limb there was a row of four plump turkeys , all sound asleep.
And person_0 reached out and seized the nearest one.
He seized the turkey by the neck , so that the big bird could not call out.
But person_0 was not quite quick enough.
Before he could pull her off her perch the turkey began to flap her wings , and she struck the turkey next her , so that THAT turkey woke up and began to gobble and flap HER wings.
Then the next turkey on the limb woke up.
And the first thing that person_0 Coon knew , every one of the thirty-nine turkeys that were left was going gobble-gob-gob-gob-gobble ! And some of them went sailing off across the yard.
One of them lighted on top of the porch just outside Farmer Green 's window and it seemed to person_0 that that one made the greatest racket of all.
Farmer Green 's window flew up ; and Farmer Green 's voice called `` Spot ! Spot !"
person_0 Coon did not wait to hear anything more.
He dropped the turkey he had seized and slipped down to the ground.
And then he ran toward the woods as fast as he could go.
Farmer Green 's dog Spot was barking now.
And person_0 wanted to climb one of the trees by the roadside.
But he remembered , the narrow escape he had had when the dog had treed him near the cornfield.
So he never stopped until he reached the woods.
Then he went nimbly up into the trees.
And while Spot was barking at the foot of the first tree he climbed , person_0 was traveling through the tree-tops toward home.
He never said anything to his mother about Farmer Green 's turkeys.
But the next time he saw Jasper Jay person_0 told him exactly what he thought of him.
`` Ha ! ha !"
Jasper Jay only laughed.
And he did not seem at all surprised that person_0 had fallen into trouble.
To tell the truth , he was only sorry because person_0 had escaped.
Jasper Jay did not like person_0 Coon.
And he had told him about the forty fat turkeys because he hoped that person_0 would get caught if he tried to steal one of them.
`` Wait till I catch you !"
person_0 said.
But Jasper Jay only laughed harder than ever when person_0 said that.
He seemed to think it was a great joke.
He was most annoying"
Long , long ago there lived , an old man and.
an old woman ; they were peasants , and had to work hard to earn their daily rice.
The old man used to go and cut grass for the farmers around , and while he was gone the old woman , his wife , did the work of the house and worked in their own little rice field.
One day the old man went to the hills as usual to cut grass and the old woman took some clothes to the river to wash.
.
It was nearly summer , and the country was very beautiful to see in its fresh greenness as the two old people went on their way to work.
The grass on the banks of the river looked like emerald velvet , and the pussy willows along the edge of the water were shaking out their soft tassels.
The breezes blew and ruffled the smooth surface of the water into wavelets , and passing on touched the cheeks of the old couple who , for some reason they could not explain , felt very happy that morning.
The old woman at last found a nice spot by the river bank and put her basket down.
Then she set to work to wash the clothes ; she took them one by one out of the basket and washed them in the river and rubbed them on the stones.
The water was as clear as crystal , and she could see the tiny fish swimming to and fro , and the pebbles at the bottom.
As she was busy washing her clothes a great peach came bumping down the stream.
The old woman looked up from her work and saw this large peach.
She was sixty years of age , yet in all her life she had never seen such a big peach as this.
`` How delicious that peach must be !"
she said to herself.
`` I must certainly get it and take it home to my old man"
She stretched out her arm to try and get it , but it was quite out of her reach.
She looked about for a stick , but there was not one to be seen , and if she went to look for one she would lose the peach.
Stopping a moment to think what she would do , she remembered an old charm-verse.
Now she began to clap her hands to keep time to the rolling of the peach down stream , and while she clapped she sang this song : `` Distant water is bitter , The near water is sweet ; Pass by the distant water And come into the sweet"
Strange to say , as soon as she began to repeat this little song the peach began to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman was standing , till at last it stopped just in front of her so that she was able to take it up in her hands.
The old woman was delighted.
She could not go on with her work , so happy and excited was she , so she put all the clothes back in her bamboo basket , and with the basket on her back and the peach in her hand she hurried homewards.
It seemed a very long time to her to wait till her husband returned.
The old man at last came back as the sun was setting , with a big bundle of grass on his back -- so big that he was almost hidden and she could hardly see him.
He seemed very tired and used the scythe for a walking stick , leaning on it as he walked along.
As soon as the old woman saw him she called out : `` O Fii San ! -LRB- old man -RRB- I have been waiting for you to come home for such a long time to-day !"
`` What is the matter ? Why are you so impatient ?"
asked the old man , wondering at her unusual eagerness.
`` Has anything happened while I have been away ?"
`` Oh , no !"
answered the old woman , `` nothing has happened , only I have found a nice present for you !"
`` That is good ,"
said the old man.
He then washed his feet in a basin of water and stepped up to the veranda.
The old woman now ran into the little room and brought out from the cupboard the big peach.
It felt even heavier than before.
She held it up to him , saying : `` Just look at this ! Did you ever see such a large peach in all your life ?"
When the old man looked at the peach he was greatly astonished and said : `` This is indeed the largest peach I have ever seen ! Wherever did you buy it ?"
`` I did not buy it ,"
answered the old woman.
`` I found it in the river where I was washing"
And she told him the whole story.
`` I am very glad that you have found it.
Let us eat it now , for I am hungry ,"
said the O Fii San.
He brought out the kitchen knife , and , placing the peach on a board , was about to cut it when , wonderful to tell , the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said : `` Wait a bit , old man !"
and out stepped a beautiful little child.
The old man and his wife were both so astonished at what they saw that they fell to the ground.
The child spoke again : `` Do n't be afraid.
I am no demon or fairy.
I will tell you the truth.
Heaven has had compassion on you.
Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child.
Your cry has been heard and I am sent to be the son of your old age !"
On hearing this the old man and his wife were very happy.
They had cried night and day for sorrow at having no child to help them in their lonely old age , and now that their prayer was answered they were so lost with joy that they did not know where to put their hands or their feet.
First the old man took the child up in his arms , and then the old woman did the same ; and they named him MOMOTARO , OR SON OF A PEACH , because he had come out of a peach.
The years passed quickly by and the child grew to be fifteen years of age.
He was taller and far stronger than any other boys of his own age , he had a handsome face and a heart full of courage , and he was very wise for his years.
The old couple 's pleasure was very great when they looked at him , for he was just what they thought a hero ought to be like.
One day person_0 came to his foster-father and said solemnly : `` Father , by a strange chance we have become father and son.
Your goodness to me has been higher than the mountain grasses which it was your daily work to cut , and deeper than the river where my mother washes the clothes.
I do not know how to thank you enough"
`` Why ,"
answered the old man , `` it is a matter of course that a father should bring up his son.
When you are older it will be your turn to take care of us , so after all there will be no profit or loss between us -- all will be equal.
Indeed , I am rather surprised that you should thank me in this way !"
and the old man looked bothered.
`` I hope you will be patient with me ,"
said person_0 ; `` but before I begin to pay back your goodness to me I have a request to make which I hope you will grant me above everything else"
`` I will let you do whatever you wish , for you are quite different to all other boys !"
`` Then let me go away at once !"
`` What do you say ? Do you wish to leave your old father and mother and go away from your old home ?"
`` I will surely come back again , if you let me go now !"
`` Where are you going ?"
`` You must think it strange that I want to go away ,"
said person_0 , `` because I have not yet told you my reason.
Far away from here to the northeast of Japan there is an island in the sea.
This island is the stronghold of a band of devils.
I have often heard how they invade this land , kill and rob the people , and carry off all they can find.
They are not only very wicked but they are disloyal to our Emperor and disobey his laws.
They are also cannibals , for they kill and eat some of the poor people who are so unfortunate as to fall into their hands.
These devils are very hateful beings.
I must go and conquer them and bring back all the plunder of which they have robbed this land.
It is for this reason that I want to go away for a short time !"
The old man was much surprised at hearing all this from a mere boy of fifteen.
He thought it best to let the boy go.
He was strong and fearless , and besides all this , the old man knew he was no common child , for he had been sent to them as a gift from Heaven , and he felt quite sure that the devils would be powerless to harm him.
`` All you say is very interesting , person_0 ,"
said the old man.
`` I will not hinder you in your determination.
You may go if you wish.
Go to the island as soon as ever you like and destroy the demons and bring peace to the land"
`` Thank you , for all your kindness ,"
said person_0 , who began to get ready to go that very day.
He was full of courage and did not know what fear was.
The old man and woman at once set to work to pound rice in the kitchen mortar to make cakes for person_0 to take with him on his journey.
At last the cakes were made and person_0 was ready to start on his long journey.
Parting is always sad.
So it was now.
The eyes of the two old people were filled with tears and their voices trembled as they said : `` Go with all care and speed.
We expect you back victorious !"
person_0 was very sorry to leave his old parents -LRB- though he knew he was coming back as soon as he could -RRB- , for he thought of how lonely they would be while he was away.
But he said `` Good-by !"
quite bravely.
`` I am going now.
Take good care of yourselves while I am away.
Good - by !"
And he stepped quickly out of the house.
In silence the eyes of person_0 and his parents met in farewell.
person_0 now hurried on his way till it was midday.
He began to feel hungry , so he opened his bag and took out one of the rice-cakes and sat down under a tree by the side of the road to eat it.
While he was thus having his lunch a dog almost as large as a colt came running out from the high grass.
He made straight for person_0 , and showing his teeth , said in a fierce way : `` You are a rude man to pass my field without asking permission first.
If you leave me all the cakes you have in your bag you may go ; otherwise I will bite you till I kill you !"
person_0 only laughed scornfully : `` What is that you are saying ? Do you know who I am ? I am person_0 , and I am on my way to subdue the devils in their island stronghold in the northeast of Japan.
If you try to stop me on my way there I will cut you in two from the head downwards !"
The dog 's manner at once changed.
His tail dropped between his legs , and coming near he bowed so low that his forehead touched the ground.
`` What do I hear ? The name of person_0 ? Are you indeed person_0 ? I have often heard of your great strength.
Not knowing who you were I have behaved in a very stupid way.
Will you please pardon my rudeness ? Are you indeed on your way to invade the Island of Devils ? If you will take such a rude fellow with you as one of your followers , I shall be very grateful to you"
`` I think I can take you with me if you wish to go ,"
said person_0.
`` Thank you !"
said the dog.
`` By the way , I am very very hungry.
Will you give me one of the cakes you are carrying ?"
`` This is the best kind of cake there is in Japan ,"
said person_0.
`` I can not spare you a whole one ; I will give you half of one"
`` Thank you very much ,"
said the dog , taking the piece thrown to him.
Then person_0 got up and the dog followed.
For a long time they walked over the hills and through the valleys.
As they were going along an animal came down from a tree a little ahead of them.
The creature soon came up to person_0 and said : `` Good morning , person_0 ! You are welcome in this part of the country.
Will you allow me to go with you ?"
The dog answered jealously : `` person_0 already has a dog to accompany him.
Of what use is a monkey like you in battle ? We are on our way to fight the devils ! Get away !"
The dog and the monkey began to quarrel and bite , for these two animals always hate each other.
`` Now , do n't quarrel !"
said person_0 , putting himself between them.
`` Wait a moment , dog !"
`` It is not at all dignified for you to have such a creature as that following you !"
said the dog.
`` What do you know about it ?"
asked person_0 ; and pushing aside the dog , he spoke to the monkey : `` Who are you ?"
`` I am a monkey living in these hills ,"
replied the monkey"
I heard of your expedition to the Island of Devils , and I have come to go with you.
Nothing will please me more than to follow you !"
`` Do you really wish to go to the Island of Devils and fight with me ?"
`` Yes , sir ,"
replied the monkey.
`` I admire your courage ,"
said person_0.
`` Here is a piece of one of my fine rice-cakes.
Come along !"
So the monkey joined person_0.
The dog and the monkey did not get on well together.
They were always snapping at each other as they went along , and always wanting to have a fight.
This made person_0 very cross , and at last he sent the dog on ahead with a flag and put the monkey behind with a sword , and he placed himself between them with a war-fan , which is made of iron.
By and by they came to a large field.
Here a bird flew down and alighted on the ground just in front of the little party.
It was the most beautiful bird person_0 had ever seen.
On its body were five different robes of feathers and its head was covered with a scarlet cap.
The dog at once ran at the bird and tried to seize and kill it.
But the bird struck out its spurs and flew at the dog 's tail , and the fight went hard with both.
person_0 , as he looked on , could not help admiring the bird ; it showed so much spirit in the fight.
It would certainly make a good fighter.
person_0 went up to the two combatants , and holding the dog back , said to the bird : `` You rascal ! you are hindering my journey.
Surrender at once , and I will take you with me.
If you do n't I will set this dog to bite your head off !"
Then the bird surrendered at once , and begged to be taken into person_0 's company.
`` I do not know what excuse to offer for quarreling with the dog , your servant , but I did not see you.
I am a miserable bird called a pheasant.
It is very generous of you to pardon my rudeness and to take me with you.
Please allow me to follow you behind the dog and the monkey !"
`` I congratulate you on surrendering so soon ,"
said person_0 , smiling.
`` Come and join us in our raid on the devils"
`` Are you going to take this bird with you also ?"
asked the dog , interrupting.
`` Why do you ask such an unnecessary question ? Did n't you hear what I said ? I take the bird with me because I wish to !"
`` Humph !"
said the dog.
Then person_0 stood and gave this order : `` Now all of you must listen to me.
The first thing necessary in an army is harmony.
It is a wise saying which says that ` Advantage on earth is better than advantage in Heaven ! ' Union amongst ourselves is better than any earthly gain.
When we are not at peace amongst ourselves it is no easy thing to subdue an enemy.
From now , you three , the dog , the monkey and the pheasant , must be friends with one mind.
The one who first begins a quarrel will be discharged on the spot !"
All the three promised not to quarrel.
The pheasant was now made a member of person_0 's suite , and received half a cake.
person_0 's influence was so great that the three became good friends , and hurried onwards with him as their leader.
Hurrying on day after day they at last came out upon the shore of the North-Eastern Sea.
There was nothing to be seen as far as the horizon -- not a sign of any island.
All that broke the stillness was the rolling of the waves upon the shore.
Now , the dog and the monkey and the pheasant had come very bravely all the way through the long valleys and over the hills , but they had never seen the sea before , and for the first time since they set out they were bewildered and gazed at each other in silence.
How were they to cross the water and get to the Island of Devils ? person_0 soon saw that they were daunted by the sight of the sea , and to try them he spoke loudly and roughly : `` Why do you hesitate ? Are you afraid of the sea ? Oh ! what cowards you are ! It is impossible to take such weak creatures as you with me to fight the demons.
It will be far better for me to go alone.
I discharge you all at once !"
The three animals were taken aback at this sharp reproof , and clung to person_0 's sleeve , begging him not to send them away.
`` Please , person_0 !"
said the dog.
`` We have come thus far !"
said the monkey.
`` It is inhuman to leave us here !"
said the pheasant.
`` We are not at all afraid of the sea ,"
said the monkey again.
`` Please do take us with you ,"
said the pheasant.
`` Do please ,"
said the dog.
They had now gained a little courage , so person_0 said : `` Well , then , I will take you with me , but be careful !"
person_0 now got a small ship , and they all got on board.
The wind and weather were fair , and the ship went like an arrow over the sea.
It was the first time they had ever been on the water , and so at first the dog , the monkey and the pheasant were frightened at the waves and the rolling of the vessel , but by degrees they grew accustomed to the water and were quite happy again.
Every day they paced the deck of their little ship , eagerly looking out for the demons ' island.
When they grew tired of this , they told each other stories of all their exploits of which they were proud , and then played games together ; and person_0 found much to amuse him in listening to the three animals and watching their antics , and in this way he forgot that the way was long and that he was tired of the voyage and of doing nothing.
He longed to be at work killing the monsters who had done so much harm in his country.
As the wind blew in their favor and they met no storms the ship made a quick voyage , and one day when the sun was shining brightly a sight of land rewarded the four watchers at the bow.
person_0 knew at once that what they saw was the devils ' stronghold.
On the top of the precipitous shore , looking out to sea , was a large castle.
Now that his enterprise was close at hand , he was deep in thought with his head leaning on his hands , wondering how he should begin the attack.
His three followers watched him , waiting for orders.
At last he called to the pheasant : `` It is a great advantage for us to have you with us"
said person_0 to the bird , `` for you have good wings.
Fly at once to the castle and engage the demons to fight.
We will follow you"
The pheasant at once obeyed.
He flew off from the ship beating the air gladly with his wings.
The bird soon reached the island and took up his position on the roof in the middle of the castle , calling out loudly : `` All you devils listen to me ! The great Japanese general person_0 has come to fight you and to take your stronghold from you.
If you wish to save your lives surrender at once , and in token of your submission you must break off the horns that grow on your forehead.
If you do not surrender at once , but make up your mind to fight , we , the pheasant , the dog and the monkey , will kill you all by biting and tearing you to death !"
The horned demons looking up and only seeing a pheasant , laughed and said : `` A wild pheasant , indeed ! It is ridiculous to hear such words from a mean thing like you.
Wait till you get a blow from one of our iron bars !"
Very angry , indeed , were the devils.
They shook their horns and their shocks of red hair fiercely , and rushed to put on tiger skin trousers to make themselves look more terrible.
They then brought out great iron bars and ran to where the pheasant perched over their heads , and tried to knock him down.
The pheasant flew to one side to escape the blow , and then attacked the head of first one and then another demon.
He flew round and round them , beating the air with his wings so fiercely and ceaselessly , that the devils began to wonder whether they had to fight one or many more birds.
In the meantime , person_0 had brought his ship to land.
As they had approached , he saw that the shore was like a precipice , and that the large castle was surrounded by high walls and large iron gates and was strongly fortified.
person_0 landed , and with the hope of finding some way of entrance , walked up the path towards the top , followed by the monkey and the dog.
They soon came upon two beautiful damsels washing clothes in a stream.
person_0 saw that the clothes were blood-stained , and that as the two maidens washed , the tears were falling fast down their cheeks.
He stopped and spoke to them : `` Who are you , and why do you weep ?"
`` We are captives of the Demon King.
We were carried away from our homes to this island , and though we are the daughters of Daimios -LRB- Lords -RRB- , we are obliged to be his servants , and one day he will kill us"
-- and the maidens held up the blood-stained clothes -- `` and eat us , and there is no one to help us !"
And their tears burst out afresh at this horrible thought.
`` I will rescue you ,"
said person_0.
`` Do not weep any more , only show me how I may get into the castle"
Then the two ladies led the way and showed person_0 a little back door in the lowest part of the castle wall -- so small that person_0 could hardly crawl in.
The pheasant , who was all this time fighting hard , saw person_0 and his little band rush in at the back.
person_0 's onslaught was so furious that the devils could not stand against him.
At first their foe had been a single bird , the pheasant , but now that person_0 and the dog and the monkey had arrived they were bewildered , for the four enemies fought like a hundred , so strong were they.
Some of the devils fell off the parapet of the castle and were dashed to pieces on the rocks beneath ; others fell into the sea and were drowned ; many were beaten to death by the three animals.
The chief of the devils at last was the only one left.
He made up his mind to surrender , for he knew that his enemy was stronger than mortal man.
He came up humbly to person_0 and threw down his iron bar , and kneeling down at the victor 's feet he broke off the horns on his head in token of submission , for they were the sign of his strength and power.
`` I am afraid of you ,"
he said meekly.
`` I can not stand against you.
I will give you all the treasure hidden in this castle if you will spare my life !"
person_0 laughed.
`` It is not like you , big devil , to beg for mercy , is it ? I can not spare your wicked life , however much you beg , for you have killed and tortured many people and robbed our country for many years"
Then person_0 tied the devil chief up and gave him into the monkey 's charge.
Having done this , he went into all the rooms of the castle and set the prisoners free and gathered together all the treasure he found.
The dog and the pheasant carried home the plunder , and thus person_0 returned triumphantly to his home , taking with him the devil chief as a captive.
The two poor damsels , daughters of Daimios , and others whom the wicked demon had carried off to be his slaves , were taken safely to their own homes and delivered to their parents.
The whole country made a hero of person_0 on his triumphant return , and rejoiced that the country was now freed from the robber devils who had been a terror of the land for a long time.
The old couple 's joy was greater than ever , and the treasure person_0 had brought home with him enabled them to live in peace and plenty to the end of their days"
Long , long ago , in old Japan , the person_0dom of the Sea was governed by a wonderful person_0.
He was called Rin Jin , or the person_1 of the Sea.
His power was immense , for he was the ruler of all sea creatures both great and small , and in his keeping were the Jewels of the Ebb and Flow of the Tide.
The Jewel of the Ebbing Tide when thrown into the ocean caused the sea to recede from the land , and the Jewel of the Flowing Tide made the waves to rise mountains high and to flow in upon the shore like a tidal wave.
The person_2 of Rin Jin was at the bottom of the sea , and was so beautiful that no one has ever seen anything like it even in dreams.
The walls were of coral , the roof of jadestone and chrysoprase , and the floors were of the finest mother-of-pearl.
But the person_1 , in spite of his wide-spreading person_0dom , his beautiful person_2 and all its wonders , and his power which none disputed throughout the whole sea , was not at all happy , for he reigned alone.
At last he thought that if he married he would not only be happier , but also more powerful.
So he decided to take a wife.
Calling all his fish retainers together , he chose several of them as ambassadors to go through the sea and seek for a young person_1 Princess who would be his bride.
At last they returned to the person_2 bringing with them a lovely young dragon.
Her scales were of glittering green like the wings of summer beetles , her eyes threw out glances of fire , and she was dressed in gorgeous robes.
All the jewels of the sea worked in with embroidery adorned them.
The person_0 fell in love with her at once , and the wedding ceremony was celebrated with great splendor.
Every living thing in the sea , from the great whales down to the little shrimps , came in shoals to offer their congratulations to the bride and bridegroom and to wish them a long and prosperous life.
Never had there been such an assemblage or such gay festivities in the Fish-World before.
The train of bearers who carried the bride 's possessions to her new home seemed to reach across the waves from one end of the sea to the other.
Each fish carried a phosphorescent lantern and was dressed in ceremonial robes , gleaming blue and pink and silver ; and the waves as they rose and fell and broke that night seemed to be rolling masses of white and green fire , for the phosphorus shone with double brilliancy in honor of the event.
Now for a time the person_1 and his bride lived very happily.
They loved each other dearly , and the bridegroom day after day took delight in showing his bride all the wonders and treasures of his coral person_2 , and she was never tired of wandering with him through its vast halls and gardens.
Life seemed to them both like a long summer 's day.
Two months passed in this happy way , and then the person_1 Queen fell ill and was obliged to stay in bed.
The person_0 was sorely troubled when he saw his precious bride so ill , and at once sent for the fish doctor to come and give her some medicine.
He gave special orders to the servants to nurse her carefully and to wait upon her with diligence , but in spite of all the nurses ' assiduous care and the medicine that the doctor prescribed , the young Queen showed no signs of recovery , but grew daily worse.
Then the person_1 interviewed the doctor and blamed him for not curing the Queen.
The doctor was alarmed at Rin Jin 's evident displeasure , and excused his want of skill by saying that although he knew the right kind of medicine to give the invalid , it was impossible to find it in the sea.
`` Do you mean to tell me that you ca n't get the medicine here ?"
asked the person_1.
`` It is just as you say !"
said the doctor.
`` Tell me what it is you want for the Queen ?"
demanded Rin Jin.
`` I want the liver of a live monkey !"
answered the doctor.
`` The liver of a live monkey ! Of course that will be most difficult to get ,"
said the person_0.
`` If we could only get that for the Queen , Her Majesty would soon recover ,"
said the doctor.
`` Very well , that decides it ; we MUST get it somehow or other.
But where are we most likely to find a monkey ?"
asked the person_0.
Then the doctor told the person_1 that some distance to the south there was a Monkey Island where a great many monkeys lived.
`` If only you could capture one of these monkeys ?"
said the doctor.
`` How can any of my people capture a monkey ?"
said the person_1 , greatly puzzled.
`` The monkeys live on dry land , while we live in the water ; and out of our element we are quite powerless ! I do n't see what we can do !"
`` That has been my difficulty too ,"
said the doctor.
`` But amongst your innumerable servants you surely can find one who can go on shore for that express purpose !"
`` Something must be done ,"
said the person_0 , and calling his chief steward he consulted him on the matter.
The chief steward thought for some time , and then , as if struck by a sudden thought , said joyfully : `` I know what we must do ! There is the kurage -LRB- jelly fish -RRB-.
He is certainly ugly to look at , but he is proud of being able to walk on land with his four legs like a tortoise.
Let us send him to the Island of Monkeys to catch one"
The jelly fish was then summoned to the person_0 's presence , and was told by His Majesty what was required of him.
The jelly fish , on being told of the unexpected mission which was to be intrusted to him , looked very troubled , and said that he had never been to the island in question , and as he had never had any experience in catching monkeys he was afraid that he would not be able to get one.
`` Well ,"
said the chief steward , `` if you depend on your strength or dexterity you will never catch a monkey.
The only way is to play a trick on one !"
`` How can I play a trick on a monkey ? I do n't know how to do it ,"
said the perplexed jelly fish.
`` This is what you must do ,"
said the wily chief steward.
`` When you approach the Island of Monkeys and meet some of them , you must try to get very friendly with one.
Tell him that you are a servant of the person_1 , and invite him to come and visit you and see the person_1 's person_2.
Try and describe to him as vividly as you can the grandeur of the person_2 and the wonders of the sea so as to arouse his curiosity and make him long to see it all !"
`` But how am I to get the monkey here ? You know monkeys do n't swim ?"
said the reluctant jelly fish.
`` You must carry him on your back.
What is the use of your shell if you ca n't do that !"
said the chief steward.
`` Wo n't he be very heavy ?"
queried kurage again.
`` You must n't mind that , for you are working for the person_1 ,"
replied the chief steward.
`` I will do my best then ,"
said the jelly fish , and he swam away from the person_2 and started off towards the Monkey Island.
Swimming swiftly he reached his destination in a few hours , and landed by a convenient wave upon the shore.
On looking round he saw not far away a big pine-tree with drooping branches and on one of those branches was just what he was looking for -- a live monkey.
`` I 'm in luck !"
thought the jelly fish.
`` Now I must flatter the creature and try to entice him to come back with me to the person_2 , and my part will be done !"
So the jelly fish slowly walked towards the pine-tree.
In those ancient days the jelly fish had four legs and a hard shell like a tortoise.
When he got to the pine-tree he raised his voice and said : `` How do you do , Mr.
Monkey ? Is n't it a lovely day ?"
`` A very fine day ,"
answered the monkey from the tree.
`` I have never seen you in this part of the world before.
Where have you come from and what is your name ?"
`` My name is kurage or jelly fish.
I am one of the servants of the person_1.
I have heard so much of your beautiful island that I have come on purpose to see it ,"
answered the jelly fish.
`` I am very glad to see you ,"
said the monkey.
`` By the bye ,"
said the jelly fish , `` have you ever seen the person_2 of the person_1 of the Sea where I live ?"
`` I have often heard of it , but I have never seen it !"
answered the monkey.
`` Then you ought most surely to come.
It is a great pity for you to go through life without seeing it.
The beauty of the person_2 is beyond all description -- it is certainly to my mind the most lovely place in the world ,"
said the jelly fish.
`` Is it so beautiful as all that ?"
asked the monkey in astonishment.
Then the jelly fish saw his chance , and went on describing to the best of his ability the beauty and grandeur of the Sea person_0 's person_2 , and the wonders of the garden with its curious trees of white , pink and red coral , and the still more curious fruits like great jewels hanging on the branches.
The monkey grew more and more interested , and as he listened he came down the tree step by step so as not to lose a word of the wonderful story.
`` I have got him at last !"
thought the jelly fish , but aloud he said : `` Mr.
Monkey.
I must now go back.
As you have never seen the person_2 of the person_1 , wo n't you avail yourself of this splendid opportunity by coming with me ? I shall then be able to act as guide and show you all the sights of the sea , which will be even more wonderful to you -- a land-lubber"
`` I should love to go ,"
said the monkey , `` but how am I to cross the water ! I ca n't swim , as you surely know !"
`` There is no difficulty about that.
I can carry you on my back"
`` That will be troubling you too much ,"
said the monkey.
`` I can do it quite easily.
I am stronger than I look , so you need n't hesitate ,"
said the jelly fish , and taking the monkey on his back he stepped into the sea.
`` Keep very still , Mr.
monkey ,"
said the jelly fish.
`` You must n't fall into the sea ; I am responsible for your safe arrival at the person_0 's person_2"
`` Please do n't go so fast , or I am sure I shall fall off ,"
said the monkey.
Thus they went along , the jelly fish skimming through the waves with the monkey sitting on his back.
When they were about half-way , the jelly fish , who knew very little of anatomy , began to wonder if the monkey had his liver with him or not ! `` Mr.
Monkey , tell me , have you such a thing as a liver with you ?"
The monkey was very much surprised at this queer question , and asked what the jelly fish wanted with a liver.
`` That is the most important thing of all ,"
said the stupid jelly fish , `` so as soon as I recollected it , I asked you if you had yours with you ?"
`` Why is my liver so important to you ?"
asked the monkey.
`` Oh ! you will learn the reason later ,"
said the jelly fish.
The monkey grew more and more curious and suspicious , and urged the jelly fish to tell him for what his liver was wanted , and ended up by appealing to his hearer 's feelings by saying that he was very troubled at what he had been told.
Then the jelly fish , seeing how anxious the monkey looked , was sorry for him , and told him everything.
How the person_1 Queen had fallen ill , and how the doctor had said that only the liver of a live monkey would cure her , and how the person_1 had sent him to find one.
`` Now I have done as I was told , and as soon as we arrive at the person_2 the doctor will want your liver , so I feel sorry for you !"
said the silly jelly fish.
The poor monkey was horrified when he learned all this , and very angry at the trick played upon him.
He trembled with fear at the thought of what was in store for him.
But the monkey was a clever animal , and he thought it the wisest plan not to show any sign of the fear he felt , so he tried to calm himself and to think of some way by which he might escape.
`` The doctor means to cut me open and then take my liver out ! Why I shall die !"
thought the monkey.
At last a bright thought struck him , so he said quite cheerfully to the jelly fish : `` What a pity it was , Mr.
Jelly Fish , that you did not speak of this before we left the island !"
`` If I had told why I wanted you to accompany me you would certainly have refused to come ,"
answered the jelly fish.
`` You are quite mistaken ,"
said the monkey.
`` Monkeys can very well spare a liver or two , especially when it is wanted for the person_1 Queen of the Sea.
If I had only guessed of what you were in need.
I should have presented you with one without waiting to be asked.
I have several livers.
But the greatest pity is , that as you did not speak in time , I have left all my livers hanging on the pine-tree"
`` Have you left your liver behind you ?"
asked the jelly fish.
`` Yes ,"
said the cunning monkey , `` during the daytime I usually leave my liver hanging up on the branch of a tree , as it is very much in the way when I am climbing about from tree to tree.
To-day , listening to your interesting conversation , I quite forgot it , and left it behind when I came off with you.
If only you had spoken in time I should have remembered it , and should have brought it along with me !"
The jelly fish was very disappointed when he heard this , for he believed every word the monkey said.
The monkey was of no good without a liver.
Finally the jelly fish stopped and told the monkey so.
`` Well ,"
said the monkey , `` that is soon remedied.
I am really sorry to think of all your trouble ; but if you will only take me back to the place where you found me , I shall soon be able to get my liver"
The jelly fish did not at all like the idea of going all the way back to the island again ; but the monkey assured him that if he would be so kind as to take him back he would get his very best liver , and bring it with him the next time.
Thus persuaded , the jelly fish turned his course towards the Monkey Island once more.
No sooner had the jelly fish reached the shore than the sly monkey landed , and getting up into the pine-tree where the jelly fish had first seen him , he cut several capers amongst the branches with joy at being safe home again , and then looking down at the jelly fish said : `` So many thanks for all the trouble you have taken ! Please present my compliments to the person_1 on your return !"
The jelly fish wondered at this speech and the mocking tone in which it was uttered.
Then he asked the monkey if it was n't his intention to come with him at once after getting his liver.
The monkey replied laughingly that he could n't afford to lose his liver : it was too precious.
`` But remember your promise !"
pleaded the jelly fish , now very discouraged.
`` That promise was false , and anyhow it is now broken !"
answered the monkey.
Then he began to jeer at the jelly fish and told him that he had been deceiving him the whole time ; that he had no wish to lose his life , which he certainly would have done had he gone on to the Sea person_0 's person_2 to the old doctor waiting for him , instead of persuading the jelly fish to return under false pretenses.
`` Of course , I wo n't GIVE you my liver , but come and get it if you can !"
added the monkey mockingly from the tree.
There was nothing for the jelly fish to do now but to repent of his stupidity , and to return to the person_1 of the Sea and to confess his failure , so he started sadly and slowly to swim back.
The last thing he heard as he glided away , leaving the island behind him , was the monkey laughing at him.
Meanwhile the person_1 , the doctor , the chief steward , and all the servants were waiting impatiently for the return of the jelly fish.
When they caught sight of him approaching the person_2 , they hailed him with delight.
They began to thank him profusely for all the trouble he had taken in going to Monkey Island , and then they asked him where the monkey was.
Now the day of reckoning had come for the jelly fish.
He quaked all over as he told his story.
How he had brought the monkey halfway over the sea , and then had stupidly let out the secret of his commission ; how the monkey had deceived him by making him believe that he had left his liver behind him.
The person_1 's wrath was great , and he at once gave orders that the jelly fish was to be severely punished.
The punishment was a horrible one.
All the bones were to be drawn out from his living body , and he was to be beaten with sticks.
The poor jelly fish , humiliated and horrified beyond all words , cried out for pardon.
But the person_1 's order had to be obeyed.
The servants of the person_2 forthwith each brought out a stick and surrounded the jelly fish , and after pulling out his bones they beat him to a flat pulp , and then took him out beyond the person_2 gates and threw him into the water.
Here he was left to suffer and repent his foolish chattering , and to grow accustomed to his new state of bonelessness.
From this story it is evident that in former times the jelly fish once had a shell and bones something like a tortoise , but , ever since the person_1 's sentence was carried out on the ancestor of the jelly fishes , his descendants have all been soft and boneless just as you see them to-day thrown up by the waves high upon the shores of Japan"
`` Ding-dong ! ding-dong !"
It sounds up from the `` bell-deep ,"
in the person_0-person_1.
Every child in the old town of person_0 , on the island of Fuenen , knows the person_1 , which washes the gardens round about the town , and flows on under the wooden bridges from the dam to the water-mill.
In the person_1 grow the yellow water-lilies and brown feathery reeds ; the dark velvety flag grows there , high and thick ; old , decayed willows , slanting and tottering , hang far out over the stream beside the monks ' meadow and by the bleaching-ground ; but opposite there are gardens upon gardens , each different from the rest , some with pretty flowers and bowers like little dolls ' pleasure-grounds , often displaying only cabbage and other kitchen plants ; and here and there the gardens can not be seen at all , for the great elder trees that spread themselves out by the bank , and hang far out over the streaming waters , which are deeper here and there than an oar can fathom.
Opposite the old nunnery is the deepest place , which is called the `` bell-deep ,"
and there dwells the old water spirit , the `` person_1-mann"
This spirit sleeps through the day while the sun shines down upon the water ; but in starry and moonlit nights he shows himself.
He is very old : grandmother says that she has heard her own grandmother tell of him ; he is said to lead a solitary life , and to have nobody with whom he can converse save the great old church bell.
Once the bell hung in the church tower ; but now there is no trace left of the tower or of the church , which was called St.
Alban 's.
`` Ding-dong ! ding-dong !"
sounded the bell , when the tower still stood there ; and one evening , while the sun was setting , and the bell was swinging away bravely , it broke loose and came flying down through the air , the brilliant metal shining in the ruddy beam.
`` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! Now I 'll retire to rest !"
sang the bell , and flew down into the person_0-person_1 where it is deepest ; and that is why the place is called the `` bell-deep"
But the bell got neither rest nor sleep.
Down in the person_1-mann 's haunt it sounds and rings , so that the tones sometimes pierce upward through the waters ; and many people maintain that its strains forebode the death of some one ; but that is not true , for then the bell is only talking with the person_1-mann , who is now no longer alone.
And what is the bell telling ? It is old , very old , as we have already observed ; it was there long before grandmother 's grandmother was born ; and yet it is but a child in comparison with the person_1-mann , who is an old quiet personage , an oddity , with his hose of eel-skin , and his scaly jacket with the yellow lilies for buttons , and a wreath of reed in his hair and seaweed in his beard ; but he looks very pretty for all that.
-LRB- Illustration : THE AU-MANN LISTENING TO THE BELL.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa What the bell tells ? To repeat it all would require years and days ; for year by year it is telling the old stories , sometimes short ones , sometimes long ones , according to its whim ; it tells of old times , of the dark hard times , thus : `` In the church of St.
Alban , the monk mounted up into the tower.
He was young and handsome , but thoughtful exceedingly.
He looked through the loophole out upon the person_0-person_1 , when the bed of the water was yet broad , and the monks ' meadow was still a lake ; he looked out over it , and over the rampart , and over the nuns ' hill opposite , where the convent lay , and the light gleamed forth from the nun 's cell ; he had known the nun right well , and he thought of her , and his heart beat quicker as he thought.
Ding-dong ! ding-dong !"
Yes , this was the story the bell told.
`` Into the tower came also the dapper man-servant of the bishop ; and when I , the bell , who am made of metal , rang hard and loud , and swung to and fro , I might have beaten out his brains.
He sat down close under me , and played with two little sticks as if they had been a stringed instrument ; and he sang to it.
` Now I may sing it out aloud , though at other times I may not whisper it.
I may sing of everything that is kept concealed behind lock and bars.
Yonder it is cold and wet.
The rats are eating her up alive ! Nobody knows of it ! Nobody hears of it ! Not even now , for the bell is ringing and singing its loud Ding-dong ! ding-dong.
' `` There was a king in those days ; they called him Canute.
He bowed himself before bishop and monk ; but when he offended the free peasants with heavy taxes and hard words , they seized their weapons and put him to flight like a wild beast.
He sought shelter in the church , and shut gate and door behind him.
The violent band surrounded the church ; I heard tell of it.
The crows , ravens , and magpies started up in terror at the yelling and shouting that sounded around.
They flew into the tower and out again , they looked down upon the throng below , and they also looked into the windows of the church , and screamed out aloud what they saw there.
King Canute knelt before the altar in prayer , his brothers Eric and Benedict stood by him as a guard with drawn swords ; but the king 's servant , the treacherous Blake , betrayed his master ; the throng in front of the church knew where they could hit the king , and one of them flung a stone through a pane of glass , and the king lay there dead ! The cries and screams of the savage horde and of the birds sounded through the air , and I joined in it also ; for I sang ` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ' `` The church bell hangs high and looks far around , and sees the birds around it , and understands their language ; the wind roars in upon it through windows and loopholes ; and the wind knows everything , for he gets it from the air , which encircles all things , and the church bell understands his tongue , and rings it out into the world , ` Ding-dong ! ding-dong ! ' `` But it was too much for me to hear and to know ; I was not able any longer to ring it out.
I became so tired , so heavy , that the beam broke , and I flew out into the gleaming person_1 where the water is deepest , and where the person_1-mann lives , solitary and alone ; and year by year I tell him what I have heard and what I know.
Ding-dong ! ding-dong !"
Thus it sounds complainingly out of the bell-deep in the person_0-person_1 : that is what grandmother told us.
But the schoolmaster says that there was not any bell that rung down there , for that it could not do so ; and that no person_1-mann dwelt yonder , for there was no person_1-mann at all ! And when all the other church bells are sounding sweetly , he says that it is not really the bells that are sounding , but that it is the air itself which sends forth the notes ; and grandmother said to us that the bell itself said it was the air who told it him , consequently they are agreed on that point , and this much is sure.
`` Be cautious , cautious , and take good heed to thyself ,"
they both say.
The air knows everything.
It is around us , it is in us , it talks of our thoughts and of our deeds , and it speaks longer of them than does the bell down in the depths of the person_0-person_1 where the person_1-mann dwells ; it rings it out into the vault of heaven , far , far out , for ever and ever , till the heaven bells sound `` Ding-dong ! ding-dong !"
High up yonder , in the thin clear air , flew an angel with a flower from the heavenly garden.
As he was kissing the flower , a very little leaf fell down into the soft soil in the midst of the wood , and immediately took root , and sprouted , and sent forth shoots among the other plants.
`` A funny kind of slip that ,"
said the plants.
And neither thistle nor stinging-nettle would recognize the stranger.
`` That must be a kind of garden plant ,"
said they.
And they sneered ; and the plant was despised by them as being a thing out of the garden.
`` Where are you coming ?"
cried the lofty thistles , whose leaves are all armed with thorns.
`` You give yourself a good deal of space.
That 's all nonsense -- we are not here to support you !"
they grumbled.
And winter came , and snow covered the plant ; but the plant imparted to the snowy covering a lustre as if the sun was shining upon it from below as from above.
When spring came , the plant appeared as a blooming object , more beautiful than any production of the forest.
And now appeared on the scene the botanical professor , who could show what he was in black and white.
He inspected the plant and tested it , but found it was not included in his botanical system ; and he could not possibly find out to what class it belonged.
`` That must be some subordinate species ,"
he said.
`` I do n't know it.
It 's not included in any system"
`` Not included in any system !"
repeated the thistles and the nettles.
The great trees that stood round about saw and heard it ; but they said not a word , good or bad , which is the wisest thing to do for people who are stupid.
There came through the forest a poor innocent girl.
Her heart was pure , and her understanding was enlarged by faith.
Her whole inheritance was an old person_0 ; but out of its pages a voice said to her , `` If people wish to do us evil , remember how it was said of Joseph.
They imagined evil in their hearts , but God turned it to good.
If we suffer wrong -- if we are misunderstood and despised -- then we may recall the words of Him who was purity and goodness itself , and who forgave and prayed for those who buffeted Him and nailed Him to the cross"
The girl stood still in front of the wonderful plant , whose great leaves exhaled a sweet and refreshing fragrance , and whose flowers glittered like a colored flame in the sun ; and from each flower there came a sound as though it concealed within itself a deep fount of melody that thousands of years could not exhaust.
With pious gratitude the girl looked on this beautiful work of the Creator , and bent down one of the branches towards herself to breathe in its sweetness ; and a light arose in her soul.
It seemed to do her heart good ; and gladly would she have plucked a flower , but she could not make up her mind to break one off , for it would soon fade if she did so.
Therefore the girl only took a single leaf , and laid it in her person_0 at home ; and it lay there quite fresh , always green , and never fading.
Among the pages of the person_0 it was kept ; and , with the person_0 , it was laid under the young girl 's head when , a few weeks afterwards , she lay in her coffin , with the solemn calm of death on her gentle face , as if the earthly remains bore the impress of the truth that she now stood before her Creator.
But the wonderful plant still bloomed without in the forest.
It was almost like a tree to look upon ; and all the birds of passage bowed before it.
`` That 's giving itself foreign airs now ,"
said the thistles and the burdocks ; `` we never behave like that here"
And the black snails actually spat at the flower.
Then came the swineherd.
He was collecting thistles and shrubs , to burn them for the ashes.
The wonderful plant was placed bodily in his bundle.
`` It shall be made useful ,"
he said ; and so said , so done.
-LRB- Illustration : THE POOR GIRL 'S TREASURE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa But soon afterwards , the king of the country was troubled with a terrible depression of spirits.
He was busy and industrious , but that did him no good.
They read him deep and learned books , and then they read from the lightest and most superficial that they could find ; but it was of no use.
Then one of the wise men of the world , to whom they had applied , sent a messenger to tell the king that there was one remedy to give him relief and to cure him.
He said : `` In the king 's own country there grows in a forest a plant of heavenly origin.
Its appearance is thus and thus.
It can not be mistaken"
`` I fancy it was taken up in my bundle , and burnt to ashes long ago ,"
said the swineherd ; `` but I did not know any better"
`` You did n't know any better ! Ignorance of ignorances !"
And those words the swineherd might well take to himself , for they were meant for him , and for no one else.
Not another leaf was to be found ; the only one lay in the coffin of the dead girl , and no one knew anything about that.
And the king himself , in his melancholy , wandered out to the spot in the wood.
`` Here is where the plant stood ,"
he said ; `` it is a sacred place"
And the place was surrounded with a golden railing , and a sentry was posted there.
The botanical professor wrote a long treatise upon the heavenly plant.
For this he was gilded all over , and this gilding suited him and his family very well.
And indeed that was the most agreeable part of the whole story.
But the king remained as low-spirited as before ; but that he had always been , at least so the sentry said"
There was a certain Brahman in a certain village , named person_0.
He was poor and foolish and in evil case for want of employment , and he had very many children , that he might reap the fruit of his misdeeds in a former life.
He wandered about begging with his family , and at last he reached a certain city , and entered the service of a rich householder called Sthuladatta.
His sons became keepers of Sthuladatta 's cows and other property , and his wife a servant to him , and he himself lived near his house , performing the duty of an attendant.
One day there was a feast on account of the marriage of the daughter of Sthuladatta , largely attended by many friends of the bride - groom , and merry-makers.
person_0 hoped that he would be able to fill himself up to the throat with ghee and flesh and other dainties , and get the same for his family , in the house of his patron.
While he was anxiously expecting to be fed , no one thought of him.
Then he was distressed at getting nothing to eat , and he said to his wife at night , `` It is owing to my poverty and stupidity that I am treated with such disrespect here ; so I will pretend by means of an artifice to possess a knowledge of magic , so that I may become an object of respect to this Sthuladatta ; so , when you get an opportunity , tell him that I possess magical knowledge"
He said this to her , and after turning the matter over in his mind , while people were asleep he took away from the house of Sthuladatta a horse on which his master 's son-in-law rode.
He placed it in concealment at some distance , and in the morning the friends of the bridegroom could not find the horse , though they searched in every direction.
Then , while Sthuladatta was distressed at the evil omen , and searching for the thieves who had carried off the horse , the wife of person_0 came and said to him , `` My husband is a wise man , skilled in astrology and magical sciences ; he can get the horse back for you ; why do you not ask him ?"
When Sthuladatta heard that , he called person_0 , who said , `` Yesterday I was forgotten , but to-day , now the horse is stolen , I am called to mind ,"
and Sthuladatta then propitiated the Brahman with these words -- `` I forgot you , forgive me"
-- and asked him to tell him who had taken away their horse.
Then person_0 drew all kinds of pretended diagrams , and said : `` The horse has been placed by thieves on the boundary line south from this place.
It is concealed there , and before it is carried off to a distance , as it will be at close of day , go quickly and bring it"
When they heard that , many men ran and brought the horse quickly , praising the discernment of person_0.
Then person_0 was honored by all men as a sage , and dwelt there in happiness , honored by Sthuladatta.
Now , as days went on , much treasure , both of gold and jewels , had been stolen by a thief from the palace of the king.
As the thief was not known , the king quickly summoned person_0 on account of his reputation for knowledge of magic.
And he , when summoned , tried to gain time , and said , `` I will tell you to-morrow ,"
and then he was placed in a chamber by the king , and carefully guarded.
And he was sad because he had pretended to have knowledge.
Now in that palace there was a maid named Jihva -LRB- which means Tongue -RRB- , who , with the assistance of her brother , had stolen that treasure from the interior of the palace.
She , being alarmed at person_0 's knowledge , went at night and applied her ear to the door of that chamber in order to find out what he was about.
And person_0 , who was alone inside , was at that very moment blaming his own tongue , that had made a vain assumption of knowledge.
He said : `` O Tongue , what is this that you have done through your greediness ? Wicked one , you will soon receive punishment in full"
When Jihva heard this , she thought , in her terror , that she had been discovered by this wise man , and she managed to get in where he was , and falling at his feet , she said to the supposed wizard : `` Brahman , here I am , that Jihva whom you have discovered to be the thief of the treasure , and after I took it I buried it in the earth in a garden behind the palace , under a pomegranate tree.
So spare me , and receive the small quantity of gold which is in my possession"
When person_0 heard that , he said to her proudly : `` Depart , I know all this ; I know the past , present and future ; but I will not denounce you , being a miserable creature that has implored my protection.
But whatever gold is in your possession you must give back to me"
When he said this to the maid , she consented , and departed quickly.
But person_0 reflected in his astonishment : `` Fate brings about , as if in sport , things impossible , for when calamity was so near , who would have thought chance would have brought us success ? While I was blaming my jihva , the thief Jihva suddenly flung herself at my feet.
Secret crimes manifest themselves by means of fear"
Thus thinking , he passed the night happily in the chamber.
And in the morning he brought the king , by some skilful parade of pretended knowledge into the garden , and led him up to the treasure , which was buried under the pomegranate tree , and said that the thief had escaped with a part of it.
Then the king was pleased , and gave him the revenue of many villages.
But the minister , named Devajnanin , whispered in the king 's ear : `` How can a man possess such knowledge unattainable by men , without having studied the books of magic ; you may be certain that this is a specimen of the way he makes a dishonest livelihood , by having a secret intelligence with thieves.
It will be much better to test him by some new artifice"
Then the king of his own accord brought a covered pitcher into which he had thrown a frog , and said to person_0 , `` Brahman , if you can guess what there is in this pitcher , I will do you great honor to-day"
When the Brahman person_0 heard that , he thought that his last hour had come , and he called to mind the pet name of `` Froggie"
which his father had given him in his childhood in sport , and , impelled by luck , he called to himself by his pet name , lamenting his hard fate , and suddenly called out : `` This is a fine pitcher for you , Froggie ; it will soon become the swift destroyer of your helpless self"
The people there , when they heard him say that , raised a shout of applause , because his speech chimed in so well with the object presented to him , and murmured , `` Ah ! a great sage , he knows even about the frog !"
Then the king , thinking that this was all due to knowledge of divination , was highly delighted , and gave person_0 the revenue of more villages , with gold , an umbrella , and state carriages of all kinds.
So person_0 prospered in the world"
The following story is one of the strangest that ever was heard.
Two black dogs long dwelt with me in my house , and were very affectionately disposed towards me.
These two black dogs and myself were sisters , and I shall acquaint you by what strange accident they came to be metamorphosed.
After our father 's death , the estate that he left was equally divided among us.
My two sisters and myself stayed with our mother , who was still alive , and when she died she left each of us a thousand sequins.
As soon as we received our portions , the two elder -LRB- for I am the youngest -RRB- , being married , followed their husbands and left me alone.
Some time after , my eldest sister 's husband sold all that he had , and with that money and my sister 's portion they both went into Africa , where her husband , by riotous living , spent all ; and finding himself reduced to poverty , he found a pretext for divorcing my sister , and sent her away.
She returned to this city , and , having suffered incredible hardships by the way , came to me in so lamentable a condition that it would have moved the hardest heart to compassion.
I received her with all the tenderness she could expect , and on my inquiring into the cause of her sad condition , she told me with tears how inhumanly her husband had dealt with her.
I was so much concerned at her misfortune that it drew tears from my eyes : I clothed her with my own apparel , and spoke to her thus : ` Sister , you are the elder , and I esteem you as my mother : during your absence , person_0 has blessed the portion that fell to my share , and the employment I follow of feeding and bringing up silk-worms.
Assure yourself that there is nothing I have but is at your service , and as much at your disposal as my own.
' We lived very comfortably together for some months ; and one day as we were discoursing together about our third sister , and wondering we heard no news of her , she came home in as bad a condition as the elder ; her husband had treated her after the same manner : and I received her likewise with the same affection as I had done the other.
Some time after , my two sisters , on the ground that they would not be an expense to me , told me they intended to marry again.
I answered them , that if their putting me to expense was all the reason they might lay those thoughts aside , and be very welcome to stay with me ; for what I had would be sufficient to maintain us all three in a manner suitable to our condition.
` But , ' said I , ' I rather believe you have a mind to marry again.
If you do , I am sure it will very much surprise me : after the experience you have had of the small satisfaction there is in marriage , is it possible you dare venture a second time ? You know how rare it is to meet with a husband that is a really honest man.
Believe what I say , and let us live together as comfortably as we can.
' All my persuasion was in vain ; they were resolved to marry , and so they did.
But after some months were past they came back again , and begged my pardon a thousand times for not following my advice.
` You are our youngest sister , ' said they , ` and much wiser than we ; but if you will vouchsafe to receive us once more into your house and account us your slaves , we shall never commit such a fault again.
' My answer was , ` Dear sisters , I have not altered my mind with respect to you since we last parted from one another ; come again and take part of what I have.
' Upon this I embraced them again , and we lived together as we did formerly.
We continued thus a whole year in perfect love and tranquillity ; and seeing that person_0 had increased my small stock , I projected a voyage by sea , to hazard somewhat by trade.
To this end I went with my two sisters to person_1 , where I bought a ship ready fitted for sea , and laded her with such merchandise as I brought from person_2.
We set sail with a fair wind , and soon cleared the Persian gulf ; and when we got into the ocean we steered our course to the Indies , and on the twentieth day saw land.
It was a very high mountain , at the foot of which we saw a great town , and having a fresh wind we soon reached the harbor , where we cast anchor.
I had not patience to stay till my sisters were ready to go with me , but went ashore in the boat by myself ; and , making directly for the gate of the town , I saw there a great number of men on guard , some sitting and others standing , with sticks in their hands ; and they had all such dreadful countenances that it frightened me ; but perceiving they had no motion , not so much as with their eyes , I took courage , and went nearer , and then found they were all turned into stone.
I entered the town and passed through the several streets , wherein men stood everywhere in various attitudes , but all motionless and petrified.
On that side where the merchants lived I found most of the shops shut , and in such as were open I likewise found the people petrified.
I looked up to the chimneys , but saw no smoke ; which made me conjecture that the inhabitants both within and without were all turned into stone.
Being come into a vast square in the heart of the city , I perceived a great gate covered with plates of gold , the two doors of which stood open , and a curtain of silk stuff seemed to be drawn before it ; I also saw a lamp hanging over the gate.
After I had well considered , I made no doubt but that it was the palace of the prince who reigned over that country ; and being very much astonished that I had not met with one living creature , I went thither in hopes to find some one.
I entered the gate , and was still more surprised when I saw none but the guards in the porches , all petrified , some standing , some sitting , and some lying.
I crossed over a large court where I saw a stately building just before me , the windows of which were enclosed with gates of massive gold : I supposed it to be the queen 's apartment , and went into a large hall , where there stood several black chamberlains turned into stone.
I went from thence into a room richly hung and furnished , where I perceived a lady.
I knew it to be the queen by the crown of gold that hung over her head , and a necklace of pearls about her neck , each of them as big as a nut ; I went up close to her to view it , and never beheld a finer sight.
I stood some time and admired the riches and magnificence of the room ; but above all , the footcloth , the cushions and the sofas , which were all lined with Indian stuff or gold , with pictures of men and beasts in silver admirably executed.
I went out of the chamber where the petrified queen was , and passed through several other apartments richly furnished , and at last came into a vast room , where was a throne of massive gold , raised several steps above the floor and enriched with large emeralds , and a bed upon the throne of rich stuff embroidered with pearls.
What surprised me more than all the rest was a sparkling light which came from above the bed.
Being curious to know from whence it came , I mounted the steps , and lifting up my head , I saw a diamond , as big as the egg of an ostrich , lying upon a low stool ; it was so pure that I could not find the least blemish in it , and it sparkled so brightly that I could not endure the lustre of it when I saw it by daylight.
On each side of the bed 's head there stood a lighted torch , but for what use I could not comprehend ; however , it made me imagine that there was some living creature in this place , for I could not believe that these torches continued thus burning of themselves.
The doors being all open , or but half shut , I surveyed some other apartments that were as fine as those I had already seen.
I looked into the offices and store-rooms , which were full of infinite riches , and I was so much taken with the sight of all the wonderful things that I forgot myself ; and did not think of my ship or my sisters ; my whole design was to satisfy my curiosity.
Meantime night came on , which put me in mind that it was time to retire.
I was for returning by the way I came in , but I could not find it ; I lost myself among the apartments ; and finding I was come back again to that large room where the throne , the couch , the large diamond , and the torches stood , I resolved to take my night 's lodging there , and to depart the next morning betimes , to get aboard my ship.
I laid myself down upon the couch , not without some dread of being alone in a desolate place ; and this fear hindered my sleep.
About midnight I heard a voice like that of a man reading the person_3 , after the same manner and in the same tone as we read in our mosques.
Being extremely glad to hear it , I got up immediately , and , taking a torch in my hand to light me , I passed from one chamber to another on that side where the voice came from : I came to a door , where I stood still , nowise doubting that it came from thence.
I set down my torch upon the ground , and looking through a window I found it to be an oratory.
In short , it had , as we have in our mosques , a niche that shows where we must turn to say our prayers ; there were also lamps hung up , and two candlesticks with large tapers of white wax burning.
I saw a little carpet laid down , like those we have to kneel upon when we say our prayers , and a comely young man sat upon this carpet , reading with great devotion the person_3 , which lay before him upon a desk.
At the sight of this I was transported with wonder.
I wondered how it came to pass that he should be the only living creature in a town where all the people were turned into stones , and I did not doubt but that there was something in it very extraordinary.
The door being only half shut , I opened it and went in , and standing upright before the niche , I said this prayer aloud : ` Praise be to person_0 , who has favored us with a happy voyage , and may He be graciously pleased to protect us in the same manner until we arrive again in our own country.
Hear me , O Lord , and grant my request.
' The young man cast his eyes upon me , and said , ` My good lady , pray let me know who you are , and what has brought you to this desolate city ; and , in return , I will tell you who I am , what happened to me , why the inhabitants of this city are reduced to that state you see them in , and why I alone am safe and sound in the midst of such a terrible disaster.
' I told him in few words from whence I came , what made me undertake the voyage , and how I had safely arrived at the port after twenty days ' sailing ; and when I had done I prayed him to fulfil his promise , and told him how much I was struck by the frightful desolation which I had seen in all places as I came along.
` My dear lady , ' said the young man , ` have patience for a moment.
' At these words he shut the person_3 , put it into a rich case , and laid it in the niche.
I took that opportunity of observing him , and perceived so much good-nature and beauty in him that I felt strange emotion.
He made me sit down by him ; and before he began his discourse I could not forbear saying to him , ` Sir , I can scarcely have patience to wait for an account of all those wonderful things that I have seen since the first time I came into your city ; and my curiosity can not be satisfied too soon : therefore pray , sir , let me know by what miracle you alone are left alive among so many persons that have died in so strange a manner.
' ` Madam , ' said the young man , ` you have given me to understand that you have a knowledge of the true person_0 by the prayer you have just now addressed to Him.
I will acquaint you with the most remarkable effect of His greatness and power.
You must know that this city was the metropolis of a mighty kingdom , over which the king , my father , did reign.
He , his whole court , the inhabitants of the city , and all his other subjects were magi , worshippers of fire , and of Nardoun , the ancient king of the giants , who rebelled against person_0.
` And though I had an idolatrous father and mother , I had the good fortune in my youth to have a governess who was a good Mussulman ; I learned the person_3 by heart , and understood the explanation of it perfectly.
`` Dear prince ,"
would she oftentimes say , `` there is but one true person_0 ; take heed that you do not acknowledge and adore any other"
She taught me to read Arabic , and the book she gave me to practice upon was the person_3.
As soon as I was capable of understanding it , she explained to me all the heads of this excellent book , and infused piety into my mind , unknown to my father or anybody else.
She happened to die , but not before she had instructed me in all that was necessary to convince me of the truth of the Mussulman religion.
After her death I persisted with constancy in this belief ; and I abhor the false god Nardoun , and the adoration of fire.
` It is about three years and some months ago that a thundering voice was heard , all of a sudden , so distinctly , through the whole city that nobody could miss hearing it.
The words were these : `` Inhabitants , abandon the worship of Nardoun , and of fire , and worship the only person_0 that shows mercy"
` This voice was heard for three years successively , but nobody was converted : so on the last day of the year , at four o'clock in the morning , all the inhabitants were changed in an instant into stone , every one in the same condition and posture they happened to be then in.
The king , my father , had the same fate , for he was metamorphosed into a black stone , as he is to be seen in this palace ; and the queen , my mother , had the like destiny.
` I am the only person that did not suffer under that heavy judgment , and ever since I have continued to serve person_0 with more fervency than before.
I am persuaded , dear lady , that He has sent you hither for my comfort , for which I render Him infinite thanks ; for I must own that this solitary life is very unpleasant.
' ` Prince , ' said I , ` there is no doubt that Providence hath brought me into your port to present you with an opportunity of withdrawing from this dismal place.
The ship that I came in may in some measure persuade you that I am in some esteem at person_2 , where I have also left a considerable estate ; and I dare engage to promise you sanctuary there , until the mighty Commander of the Faithful , who is vice-regent to our Prophet , whom you acknowledge , shows you the honor that is due to your merit.
This renowned prince lives at person_2 , and as soon as he is informed of your arrival in his capital , you will find that it is not vain to implore his assistance.
It is impossible you can stay any longer in a city where all the objects you see must renew your grief : my vessel is at your service , where you may absolutely command as you think fit.
' He accepted the offer , and we discoursed the remaining part of the night about our sailing.
As soon as it was day we left the palace , and came aboard my ship , where we found my sisters , the captain , and the slaves , all very much troubled at my absence.
After I had presented my sisters to the prince , I told them what had hindered my return to the vessel the day before , how I had met with the young prince , his story , and the cause of the desolation of so fine a city.
The seamen were taken up several days in unlading the merchandise I had brought with me , and embarking instead all the precious things in the palace , jewels , gold and money.
We left the furniture and goods , which consisted of an infinite quantity of plate , etc.
, because our vessel could not carry it , for it would have required several vessels more to carry all the riches to person_2 that we might have chosen to take with us.
After we had laden the vessel with what we thought fit , we took such provisions and water aboard as were necessary for our voyage -LRB- for we had still a great deal of those provisions left that we had taken in at person_1 -RRB- : at last we set sail with a wind as favourable as we could wish.
The young prince , my sisters and myself enjoyed ourselves for some time very agreeably ; but alas ! this good understanding did not last long , for my sisters grew jealous of the friendship between the prince and me , and maliciously asked me one day what we should do with him when we came to person_2.
I perceived immediately why they put this question to me ; therefore , resolving to put it off with a jest , I answered them , ` I will take him for my husband ' ; and upon that , turning myself to the prince , ` Sir , ' said I , ` I humbly beg of you to give your consent ; for as soon as we come to person_2 I design to do you all the service that is in my power and to resign myself wholly to your commands.
' The prince answered , ` I know not , madam , whether you be in jest or no ; but for my own part I seriously declare , before these ladies your sisters , that from this moment I heartily accept your offer , as my lady and mistress.
Nor will I pretend to have any power over your actions.
' At these words my sisters changed color , and I could perceive afterwards that they did not love me as formerly.
We had come into the Persian Gulf , not far from person_1 , where I hoped , considering the fair wind , we might arrive the day following ; but in the night , when I was asleep , my sisters watched their time and threw me overboard.
They did the same to the prince , who was drowned.
I swam for some minutes in the water ; but by good fortune , or rather miracle , I soon felt ground.
I went towards a black place , that , so far as I could discern in the dark , seemed to be land , and actually was a flat on the coast.
When day came , I found it to be a desert island , lying about twenty miles from person_1.
I soon dried my clothes in the sun ; and as I walked along I found several sorts of fruit , and likewise fresh water , which gave me some hope of preserving my life.
I laid myself down in the shade and soon after I saw a winged serpent , very large and long , coming towards me , wriggling to the right and to the left , and hanging out his tongue , which made me think he was ill.
.
I arose , and saw a larger serpent following him , holding him by the tail , and endeavoring to devour him.
I had compassion on him , and instead of flying away , I had the boldness and courage to take up a stone that by chance lay by me , and threw it with all my strength at the great serpent , whom I hit on the head , and killed him.
The other , finding himself at liberty , took to his wings and flew away.
I looked a long while after him in the air , as an extraordinary thing ; but he flew out of sight , and I lay down again in another place in the shade , and fell asleep.
When I awoke , judge how surprised I was to see by me a black woman , of lively and agreeable looks , who held , tied together in her hand , two dogs of the same color.
I sat up and asked her who she was.
' I am , ' said she , ` the serpent whom you delivered not long since from my mortal enemy.
I knew not how to acknowledge the great kindness you did me , but by doing what I have done.
I knew the treachery of your sisters , and , to revenge you on them , as soon as I was set at liberty by your generous assistance I called several of my companions together , fairies like myself.
We have carried into your storehouses at person_2 all your lading that was in your vessel , and afterwards sunk it.
` These two black dogs are your sisters , whom I have transformed into this shape.
But this punishment is not sufficient ; for I will have you treat them after such a manner as I shall direct.
' At those words the fairy took me fast under one of her arms , and the two dogs in the other , and carried me to my house in person_2 , where I found in my storehouses all the riches which were laden on board my vessel.
Before she left me she delivered the two dogs , and told me , ` If you will not be changed into a dog as they are , I order you to give each of your sisters every night a hundred lashes with a rod , for the punishment of the crime they have committed against your person and the young prince whom they drowned.
' I was forced to promise that I would obey her order.
For many months I whipped them every night , though with regret.
I gave evidence by my tears with how much sorrow and reluctance I must perform this cruel duty.
Now the fairy had left with me a bundle of hair , saying withal that her presence would one day be of use to me ; and then , if I only burnt two tufts of this hair , she would be with me in a moment , though she were beyond Mount Caucasus.
Desirous at length to see the fairy and beg her to restore the two black dogs , my sisters , to their proper shape , I caused fire one day to be brought in , and threw the whole bundle of hair into it.
The house began to shake at that very instant , and the fairy appeared in the form of a lady very richly dressed.
I besought her , with every form of entreaty I could employ , to restore my sisters to their natural shape , and to release me from the cruel duty that I had always unwillingly performed.
The fairy at length consented , and desired a bowl of water to be brought ; she pronounced over it some words which I did not understand , and then sprinkled the water upon the dogs.
They immediately became two ladies of surprising beauty , and I recognized in them the sisters to whose human form I had so long been a stranger.
They soon after married the sons of kings , and lived happily for the rest of their lives"
It was in the month of May.
The wind still blew cold , but bushes and trees , field and meadow , all alike said the spring had come.
There was store of flowers even in the wild hedges ; and there spring carried on his affairs , and preached from a little apple tree , where one branch hung fresh and blooming , covered with delicate pink blossoms that were just ready to open.
The apple tree branch knew well enough how beautiful he was , for the knowledge is inherent in the leaf as well as in the blood ; and consequently the branch was not surprised when a nobleman 's carriage stopped opposite to him on the road , and the young countess said that an apple branch was the loveliest thing one could behold , a very emblem of spring in its most charming form.
And the branch was most carefully broken off , and she held it in her delicate hand , and sheltered it with her silk parasol.
Then they drove to the castle , where there were lofty halls and splendid apartments.
Pure white curtains fluttered round the open windows , and beautiful flowers stood in shining transparent vases ; and in one of these , which looked as if it had been cut out of fresh-fallen snow , the apple branch was placed among some fresh light twigs of beech.
It was charming to behold.
But the branch became proud ; and this was quite like human nature.
People of various kinds came through the room , and according to their rank they might express their admiration.
A few said nothing at all , and others again said too much , and the apple tree branch soon got to understand that there was a difference among plants.
`` Some are created for beauty , and some for use ; and there are some which one can do without altogether ,"
thought the apple branch ; and as he stood just in front of the open window , from whence he could see into the garden and across the fields , he had flowers and plants enough to contemplate and to think about , for there were rich plants and humble plants -- some very humble indeed.
`` Poor despised herbs !"
said the apple branch.
`` There is certainly a difference ! And how unhappy they must feel , if indeed that kind can feel like myself and my equals.
Certainly there is a difference , and distinctions must be made , or we should all be equal"
And the apple branch looked down with a species of pity , especially upon a certain kind of flower of which great numbers are found in the fields and in ditches.
No one bound them into a nosegay , they were too common ; for they might be found even among the paving-stones , shooting up everywhere like the rankest weeds , and they had the ugly name of `` dandelion ,"
or `` dog-flower"
`` Poor despised plants !"
said the apple branch.
`` It is not your fault that you received the ugly name you bear.
But it is with plants as with men -- there must be a difference !"
`` A difference ?"
said the sunbeam ; and he kissed the blooming apple branch , and saluted in like manner the yellow dandelions out in the field -- all the brothers of the sunbeam kissed them , the poor flowers as well as the rich.
Now the apple branch had never thought of the boundless beneficence of Providence in creation towards everything that lives and moves and has its being ; he had never thought how much that is beautiful and good may be hidden , but not forgotten ; but that , too , was quite like human nature.
The sunbeam , the ray of light , knew better ; and said , `` You do n't see far , and you do n't see clearly.
What is the despised plant that you especially pity ?"
`` The dandelion ,"
replied the apple branch.
`` It is never received into a nosegay ; it is trodden under foot.
There are too many of them ; and when they run to seed , they fly away like little pieces of wool over the roads , and hang and cling to people 's dress.
They are nothing but weeds -- but it is right there should be weeds too.
Oh , I 'm really very thankful that I was not created one of those flowers"
But there came across the fields a whole troop of children ; the youngest of whom was so small that it was carried by the rest , and when it was set down in the grass among the yellow flowers it laughed aloud with glee , kicked out with its little legs , rolled about and plucked the yellow flowers , and kissed them in its pretty innocence.
The elder children broke off the flowers with their tall stalks , and bent the stalks round into one another , link by link , so that a whole chain was made ; first a necklace , and then a scarf to hang over their shoulders and tie round their waists , and then a chaplet to wear on the head : it was quite a gala of green links and yellow flowers.
The eldest children carefully gathered the stalks on which hung the white feathery ball , formed by the flower that had run to seed ; and this loose , airy wool-flower , which is a beautiful object , looking like the finest snowy down , they held to their mouths , and tried to blow away the whole head at one breath : for their grandmother had said that whoever could do this would be sure to get new clothes before the year was out.
So on this occasion the despised flower was actually raised to the rank of a prophet or augur.
`` Do you see ?"
said the sunbeam.
`` Do you see the beauty of those flowers ? do you see their power ?"
`` Yes , over children ,"
replied the apple branch.
And now an old woman came into the field , and began to dig with a blunt shaftless knife round the root of the dandelion plant , and pulled it up out of the ground.
With some of the roots she intended to make tea for herself ; others she was going to sell for money to the druggist.
`` But beauty is a higher thing !"
said the apple tree branch.
`` Only the chosen few can be admitted into the realm of beauty.
There is a difference among plants , just as there is a difference among men"
And then the sunbeam spoke of the boundless love of the Creator , as manifested in the creation , and of the just distribution of things in time and in eternity.
`` Yes , yes , that is your opinion ,"
the apple branch persisted.
But now some people came into the room , and the beautiful young countess appeared , the lady who had placed the apple branch in the transparent vase in the sunlight.
She carried in her hand a flower , or something of the kind.
The object , whatever it might be , was hidden by three or four great leaves , wrapped around it like a shield , that no draught or gust of wind should injure it ; and it was carried more carefully than the apple bough had ever been.
Very gently the large leaves were now removed , and lo , there appeared the fine feathery seed crown of the despised dandelion ! This it was that the lady had plucked with the greatest care , and had carried home with every precaution , so that not one of the delicate feathery darts that form its downy ball should be blown away.
She now produced it , quite uninjured , and admired its beautiful form , its peculiar construction , and its airy beauty , which was to be scattered by the wind.
`` Look , with what singular beauty Providence has invested it ,"
she said.
`` I will paint it , together with the apple branch , whose beauty all have admired ; but this humble flower has received just as much from Heaven in a different way ; and , various as they are , both are children of the kingdom of beauty"
And the sunbeam kissed the humble flower , and he kissed the blooming apple branch , whose leaves appeared covered with a roseate blush"
THE Lombard princes oft pervade my mind ; The present tale Boccace relates you 'll find ; person_0 was the noble monarch 's name ; Teudelingua he married , beauteous dame , The last king 's widow , who had left no heir , And whose dominions proved our prince 's share.
No Beauty round compare could with the queen ; And ev ` ry blessing on the throne was seen , When Cupid , in a playful moment , came , And o ` er person_0 's stable placed his flame ; There left it carelessly to burn at will , Which soon began a muleteer to fill , With LOVE 'S all-powerful , all-consuming fire , That naught controls , and youthful breasts desire.
THE muleteer was pleasing to the sight : Gallant , good-humoured , airy , and polite , And ev ` ry way his humble birth belied ; A handsome person , nor was sense denied ; He showed it well , for when the youth beheld , With eyes of love , the queen , who all excelled , And ev ` ry effort anxiously had made , To stop the flames that would his heart invade ; When vain it proved , he took a prudent part : -- WHO can , like Cupid , manage wily art ? Whate'er stupidity we may discern , His pupils more within a day can learn , Than MASTERS knowledge in the schools can gain , Though they in study should ten years remain ; The lowest clown he presently inspires , With ev ` ry tendency that love requires ; Of this our present tale 's a proof direct , And none that feel -- its truths will e ` er suspect : THE am ` rous muleteer his thoughts employed ; Consid ` ring how his wish might be enjoyed.
Without success to certainty were brought , Life seemed to him not worth a slender thought ; To hazard ev ` ry thing ; to live or die ! Possession have ! -- or in the grave to lie ! THE Lombard custom was , that when the king , Who slept not with his queen , -LRB- a common thing In other countries too -RRB- , desired to greet His royal consort , and in bed to meet , A night-gown solely o ` er his back he threw , And then proceeded to the interview , Knocked softly at the door , on which a fair , Who waited on the queen with anxious care , Allowed the prince to enter ; took his light , -LRB- Which only glimmered in the midst of night , -RRB- Then put it out , and quickly left the room : -- A little lantern to dispel the gloom , With waxen taper that emitted rays -- In diff ` rent countries various are their ways ! OUR wily , prying , crafty muleteer , Knew well these forms were current through the year : He , like the king , at night himself equipped , And to the queen 's superb apartment slipped.
His face concealed the fellow tried to keep ; The waiting dame was more than half asleep ; The lover got access : -- soon all was clear ; The prince 's coming he had but to fear , And , as the latter had , throughout the day , The chase attended an extensive way , 'Twas more than probable he 'd not be led , -LRB- Since such fatigue he 'd had , -RRB- to quit his bed.
PERFUMED , quite neat , and lively as a bird , Our spark -LRB- safe entered -RRB- uttered not a word.
'Twas often customary with the king , When state affairs , or other weighty thing , Displeasure gave , to take of love his fill , Yet let his tongue the while continue still.
A singularity we needs must own , With this the wife was long familiar grown.
OUR am ` rous wight more joys than one received , If our narrator of the tale 's believed ; -LRB- In bed a muleteer is worth three kings , And value oft is found in humble things.
-RRB- The queen began to think her husband 's rage Had proved a stimulus such wars to wage , And made him wond ` rous stout in pleasure 's sport , Though all the while his thoughts were - ` bout the court.
WITH perfect justice Heav ` n its gifts bestows ; But equal talents all should not compose.
The prince 's virtues doubtless were designed , To take command , and govern o ` er mankind.
The lawyer , points of difficulty views , Decides with judgment , and the truth pursues.
In Cupid 's scenes the muleteer succeeds : -- Each has his part : -- none universal meeds.
WITH pleasures feasted , our gallant retired , Before the morn fresh blushes had acquired.
But scarcely had he left the tender scene , ` Ere king person_0 came to see his queen , Who much surprise expressed , and to him said : My dear , I know your love , but from this bed , You 'll recollect how recently you went , And having wonders done , should be content.
For heav 'n' s sake , consider more your health ; ` Tis dearer far to me than Croesus ' wealth.
WITHIN the royal breast suspicions rose , But nothing then the monarch would disclose.
He instantly withdrew without a word ; His sentiments to speak had been absurd , And to the stable flew , since he believed The circumstances , which his bosom grieved , Whate'er mysterious doubts might then appear , Proceeded from some am ` rous muleteer.
WHEN round the dorture he began to creep , The troop appeared as if dissolved in sleep , And so they truly were , save our gallant , Whose terrors made him tremble , sigh , and pant : No light the king had got ; it still was dark ; person_0 groped about to find the spark , Persuaded that the culprit might be known , By rapid beating of the pulse alone.
The thought was good ; to feel the prince began , And at the second venture , found his man , Who , whether from the pleasures he 'd enjoyed , Or fear , or dread discov ` ry to avoid , Experienced -LRB- spite of ev ` ry wily art , -RRB- At once quick beating of the pulse and heart.
In doubt how this adventure yet might end , He thought to seem asleep would him befriend.
MEANWHILE the king , though not without much pains , Obtained the scissors used for horses ' manes.
With these , he said , I 'll mark the fond gallant , That I may know again the one I want.
THE monarch from the muleteer with care , In front , snipt off a bulky lock of hair.
This having done , he suddenly withdrew ; But carelessly away the trophy threw ; Of which the sly gallant advantage took , And thus the prince 's subtle project shook ; For instantly began our artful spark , His fellow servants like himself to mark.
WHEN day arrived the monarch was surprised , To see each muleteer alike disguised ; No hair in front of either now was seen ; Why , how is this ? said he : What can it mean ? Fifteen or more , if I believe my sight , My wife has satisfied this very night.
Well ! well ! he 'll now escape if mum he prove ; But there again I trust he ne'er shall move"
Once there was a miller who was poor , but who had a beautiful daughter.
Now it happened that he had to go and speak to the person_0 , and in order to make himself appear important he said to him , `` I have a daughter who can spin straw into gold"
The person_0 said to the miller , `` That is an art which pleases me well ; if your daughter is as clever as you say , bring her to-morrow to my palace , and I will try what she can do"
And when the girl was brought to him he took her into a room which was quite full of straw , gave her a spinning-wheel and a reel , and said , `` Now set to work , and if by to-morrow morning early you have not spun this straw into gold during the night , you must die"
Thereupon he himself locked up the room , and left her in it alone.
So there sat the poor miller 's daughter , and for the life of her could not tell what to do ; she had no idea how straw could be spun into gold , and she grew more and more miserable , until at last she began to weep.
But all at once the door opened , and in came a little man , and said , `` Good evening , Mistress Miller ; why are you crying so ?"
`` Alas !"
answered the girl , `` I have to spin straw into gold , and I do not know how to do it"
`` What will you give me ,"
said the manikin , `` if I do it for you ?"
`` My necklace ,"
said the girl.
The little man took the necklace , seated himself in front of the wheel , and `` whirr , whirr , whirr ,"
three turns , and the reel was full ; then he put another on , and whirr , whirr , whirr , three times round , and the second was full too.
And so it went on until the morning , when all the straw was spun , and all the reels were full of gold.
By daybreak the person_0 was already there , and when he saw the gold he was astonished and delighted , but his heart became only more greedy.
He had the miller 's daughter taken into another room full of straw , which was much larger , and commanded her to spin that also in one night if she valued her life.
The girl knew not how to help herself , and was crying , when the door again opened , and the little man appeared , and said , `` What will you give me if I spin that straw into gold for you ?"
`` The ring on my finger ,"
answered the girl.
The little man took the ring , again began to turn the wheel , and by morning had spun all the straw into glittering gold.
The person_0 rejoiced beyond measure at the sight , but still he had not gold enough ; and he had the miller 's daughter taken into a still larger room full of straw , and said , `` You must spin this , too , in the course of this night ; but if you succeed , you shall be my wife"
`` Even if she be a miller 's daughter ,"
thought he , `` I could not find a richer wife in the whole world"
When the girl was alone the manikin came again for the third time , and said , `` What will you give me if I spin the straw for you this time also ?"
`` I have nothing left that I could give ,"
answered the girl.
`` Then promise me , if you should become person_1 , your first child"
`` Who knows whether that will ever happen ?"
thought the miller 's daughter ; and , not knowing how else to help herself in this strait , she promised the manikin what he wanted , and for that he once more span the straw into gold.
And when the person_0 came in the morning , and found all as he had wished , he took her in marriage , and the pretty miller 's daughter became a person_1.
A year after , she had a beautiful child , and she never gave a thought to the manikin.
But suddenly he came into her room , and said , `` Now give me what you promised"
The person_1 was horror-struck , and offered the manikin all the riches of the kingdom if he would leave her the child.
But the manikin said , `` No , something that is living is dearer to me than all the treasures in the world"
Then the person_1 began to weep and cry , so that the manikin pitied her.
`` I will give you three days ' time ,"
said he , `` if by that time you find out my name , then shall you keep your child"
So the person_1 thought the whole night of all the names that she had ever heard , and she sent a messenger over the country to inquire , far and wide , for any other names that there might be.
When the manikin came the next day , she began with Caspar , Melchior , Balthazar , and said all the names she knew , one after another ; but to every one the little man said , `` That is not my name"
On the second day she had inquiries made in the neighborhood as to the names of the people there , and she repeated to the manikin the most uncommon and curious.
`` Perhaps your name is Shortribs , or Sheepshanks , or Laceleg ?"
but he always answered , `` That is not my name"
On the third day the messenger came back again , and said , `` I have not been able to find a single new name , but as I came to a high mountain at the end of the forest , where the fox and the hare bid each other good night , there I saw a little house , and before the house a fire was burning , and round about the fire quite a ridiculous little man was jumping : he hopped upon one leg , and shouted -- `` To-day I bake , to-morrow brew , The next I 'll have the young person_1 's child.
Ha ! glad am I that no one knew That Rumpelstiltskin I am styled"
You may think how glad the person_1 was when she heard the name ! And when soon afterwards the little man came in , and asked , `` Now , Mistress person_1 , what is my name ?"
at first she said , `` Is your name Conrad ?"
`` No"
`` Is your name Harry ?"
`` No"
`` Perhaps your name is Rumpelstiltskin ?"
`` The devil has told you that ! the devil has told you that !"
cried the little man , and in his anger he plunged his right foot so deep into the earth that his whole leg went in ; and then in rage he pulled at his left leg so hard with both hands that he tore himself in two"
Twelve servants who had done nothing all the day would not exert themselves at night either , but laid themselves on the grass and boasted of their idleness.
The first said , `` What is your laziness to me , I have to concern myself about mine own ? The care of my body is my principal work , I eat not a little and drink still more.
When I have had four meals , I fast a short time until I feel hunger again , and that suits me best.
To rise betimes is not for me ; when it is getting near mid-day , I already seek out a resting-place for myself.
If the master call , I do exactly as if I had not heard him , and if he call for the second time , I wait awhile before I get up , and go to him very slowly.
In this way life is endurable"
The second said , `` I have a horse to look after , but I leave the bit in his mouth , and if I do not want to do it , I give him no food , and I say he has had it already.
I , however , lay myself in the oat-chest and sleep for four hours.
After this I stretch out one foot and move it a couple of times over the horse 's body , and then he is combed and cleaned.
Who is going to make a great business of that ? Nevertheless service is too toilsome for me"
The third said , `` Why plague oneself with work ? Nothing comes of it ! I laid myself in the sun , and fell asleep.
It began to rain a little , but why should I get up ? I let it rain on in God 's name.
At last came a splashing shower , so heavy indeed , that it pulled the hair out of my head and washed it away , and I got a hole in the skull ; I put a plaster on it , and then it was all right.
I have already had several injuries of that kind"
The fourth said , `` If I am to undertake a piece of work , I first loiter about for an hour that I may save up my strength.
After that I begin quite slowly , and ask if no one is there who could help me.
Then I let him do the chief of the work , and in reality only look on ; but that also is still too much for me"
The fifth said , `` What does that matter ? Just think , I am to take away the manure from the horse 's stable , and load the cart with it.
I let it go on slowly , and if I have taken anything on the fork , I only half-raise it up , and then I rest just a quarter of an hour until I quite throw it in.
It is enough and to spare if I take out a cartful in the day.
I have no fancy for killing myself with work"
The sixth said , `` Shame on ye ; I am afraid of no work , but I lie down for three weeks , and never once take my clothes off.
What is the use of buckling your shoes on ? For aught I care they may fall off my feet , it is no matter.
If I am going up some steps , I drag one foot slowly after the other on to the first step , and then I count the rest of them that I may know where I must rest"
The seventh said , `` That will not do with me ; my master looks after my work , only he is not at home the whole day.
But I neglect nothing , I run as fast as it is possible to do when one crawls.
If I am to get on , four sturdy men must push me with all their might.
I came where six men were lying sleeping on a bed beside each other.
I lay down by them and slept too.
There was no wakening me again , and when they wanted to have me home , they had to carry me"
The eighth said , `` I see plainly that I am the only active fellow ; if a stone lie before me , I do not give myself the trouble to raise my legs and step over it.
I lay myself down on the ground , and if I am wet and covered with mud and dirt , I stay lying until the sun has dried me again.
At the very most , I only turn myself so that it can shine on me"
The ninth said , `` That is the right way ! To-day the bread was before me , but I was too idle to take it , and nearly died of hunger ! Moreover a jug stood by it , but it was so big and heavy that I did not like to lift it up , and preferred bearing thirst.
Just to turn myself round was too much for me , I remained lying like a log the whole day"
The tenth said , `` Laziness has brought misfortune on me , a broken leg and swollen calf.
Three of us were lying in the road , and I had my legs stretched out.
Some one came with a cart , and the wheels went over me.
I might indeed have drawn my legs back , but I did not hear the cart coming , for the midges were humming about my ears , and creeping in at my nose and out again at my mouth ; who can take the trouble to drive the vermin away ?"
The eleventh said , `` I gave up my place yesterday.
I had no fancy for carrying the heavy books to my master any longer or fetching them away again.
There was no end of it all day long.
But to tell the truth , he gave me my dismissal , and would not keep me any longer , for his clothes , which I had left lying in the dust , were all moth-eaten , and I am very glad of it"
The twelfth said , `` To-day I had to drive the cart into the country , and made myself a bed of straw on it , and had a good sleep.
The reins slipped out of my hand , and when I awoke , the horse had nearly torn itself loose , the harness was gone , the strap which fastened the horse to the shafts was gone , and so were the collar , the bridle and bit.
Some one had come by , who had carried all off.
Besides this , the cart had got into a quagmire and stuck fast.
I left it standing , and stretched myself on the straw again.
At last the master came himself , and pushed the cart out , and if he had not come I should not be lying here but there , and sleeping in full tranquillity"
How fortunate is the master , and how well all goes in his house , when he has a wise servant who listens to his orders and does not obey them , but prefers following his own wisdom.
A clever John of this kind was once sent out by his master to seek a lost cow.
He stayed away a long time , and the master thought , `` Faithful John does not spare any pains over his work !"
As , however , he did not come back at all , the master was afraid lest some misfortune had befallen him , and set out himself to look for him.
He had to search a long time , but at last he perceived the boy who was running up and down a large field.
`` Now , dear John ,"
said the master when he had got up to him , `` hast thou found the cow which I sent thee to seek ?"
`` No , master ,"
he answered , `` I have not found the cow , but then I have not looked for it"
`` Then what hast thou looked for , John ?"
`` Something better , and that luckily I have found"
`` What is that , John ?"
`` Three blackbirds ,"
answered the boy.
`` And where are they ?"
asked the master.
`` I see one of them , I hear the other , and I am running after the third ,"
answered the wise boy.
Take example by this , do not trouble yourselves about your masters or their orders , but rather do what comes into your head and pleases you , and then you will act just as wisely as prudent John"
There was once an enchantress , who had three sons who loved each other as brothers , but the old woman did not trust them , and thought they wanted to steal her power from her.
So she changed the eldest into an eagle , which was forced to dwell in the rocky mountains , and was often seen sweeping in great circles in the sky.
The second , she changed into a whale , which lived in the deep sea , and all that was seen of it was that it sometimes spouted up a great jet of water in the air.
Each of them only bore his human form for only two hours daily.
The third son , who was afraid she might change him into a raging wild beast a bear perhaps , or a wolf , went secretly away.
He had heard that a King 's daughter who was bewitched , was imprisoned in the Castle of the Golden Sun , and was waiting for deliverance.
Those , however , who tried to free her risked their lives ; three-and-twenty youths had already died a miserable death , and now only one other might make the attempt , after which no more must come.
And as his heart was without fear , he caught at the idea of seeking out the Castle of the Golden Sun.
He had already traveled about for a long time without being able to find it , when he came by chance into a great forest , and did not know the way out of it.
All at once he saw in the distance two giants , who made a sign to him with their hands , and when he came to them they said , `` We are quarrelling about a cap , and which of us it is to belong to , and as we are equally strong , neither of us can get the better of the other.
The small men are cleverer than we are , so we will leave the decision to thee"
`` How can you dispute about an old cap ?"
said the youth.
`` Thou dost not know what properties it has ! It is a wishing-cap ; whosoever puts it on , can wish himself away wherever he likes , and in an instant he will be there"
`` Give me the cap ,"
said the youth , `` I will go a short distance off , and when I call you , you must run a race , and the cap shall belong to the one who gets first to me"
He put it on and went away , and thought of the King 's daughter , forgot the giants , and walked continually onward.
At length he sighed from the very bottom of his heart , and cried , `` Ah , if I were but at the Castle of the Golden Sun ,"
and hardly had the words passed his lips than he was standing on a high mountain before the gate of the castle.
He entered and went through all the rooms , until in the last he found the King 's daughter.
But how shocked he was when he saw her.
She had an ashen-gray face full of wrinkles , blear eyes , and red hair.
`` Are you the King 's daughter , whose beauty the whole world praises ?"
cried he.
`` Ah ,"
she answered , `` this is not my form ; human eyes can only see me in this state of ugliness , but that thou mayst know what I am like , look in the mirror it does not let itself be misled it will show thee my image as it is in truth"
She gave him the mirror in his hand , and he saw therein the likeness of the most beautiful maiden on earth , and saw , too , how the tears were rolling down her cheeks with grief.
Then said he , `` How canst thou be set free ? I fear no danger"
She said , `` He who gets the crystal ball , and holds it before the enchanter , will destroy his power with it , and I shall resume my true shape.
Ah ,"
she added , `` so many have already gone to meet death for this , and thou art so young ; I grieve that thou shouldst encounter such great danger"
`` Nothing can keep me from doing it ,"
said he , `` but tell me what I must do"
`` Thou shalt know everything ,"
said the King 's daughter ; `` when thou descendest the mountain on which the castle stands , a wild bull will stand below by a spring , and thou must fight with it , and if thou hast the luck to kill it , a fiery bird will spring out of it , which bears in its body a burning egg , and in the egg the crystal ball lies like a yolk.
The bird will not , however , let the egg fall until forced to do so , and if it falls on the ground , it will flame up and burn everything that is near , and melt even ice itself , and with it the crystal ball , and then all thy trouble will have been in vain"
The youth went down to the spring , where the bull snorted and bellowed at him.
After a long struggle he plunged his sword in the animal 's body , and it fell down.
Instantly a fiery bird arose from it , and was about to fly away , but the young man 's brother , the eagle , who was passing between the clouds , swooped down , hunted it away to the sea , and struck it with his beak until , in its extremity , it let the egg fall.
The egg did not , however , fall into the sea , but on a fisherman 's hut which stood on the shore and the hut began at once to smoke and was about to break out in flames.
Then arose in the sea waves as high as a house , they streamed over the hut , and subdued the fire.
The other brother , the whale , had come swimming to them , and had driven the water up on high.
When the fire was extinguished , the youth sought for the egg and happily found it ; it was not yet melted , but the shell was broken by being so suddenly cooled with the water , and he could take out the crystal ball unhurt.
When the youth went to the enchanter and held it before him , the latter said , `` My power is destroyed , and from this time forth thou art the King of the Castle of the Golden Sun.
With this canst thou likewise give back to thy brothers their human form"
Then the youth hastened to the King 's daughter , and when he entered the room , she was standing there in the full splendor of her beauty , and joyfully they exchanged rings with each other"
My father left me a considerable estate , the best part of which I spent in riotous living during my youth ; but I perceived my error , and reflected that riches were perishable , and quickly consumed by such ill managers as myself.
I further considered that by my irregular way of living I had wretchedly misspent my time which is the most valuable thing in the world.
Struck with those reflections , I collected the remains of my furniture , and sold all my patrimony by public auction to the highest bidder.
Then I entered into a contract with some merchants , who traded by sea : I took the advice of such as I thought most capable to give it me ; and resolving to improve what money I had , I went to Balsora and embarked with several merchants on board a ship which we jointly fitted out.
We set sail , and steered our course towards the East Indies , through the Persian Gulf , which is formed by the coasts of Arabia Felix on the right , and by those of Persia on the left , and , according to common opinion , is seventy leagues across at the broadest part.
The eastern sea , as well as that of the Indies , is very spacious : it is bounded on one side by the coasts of Abyssinia , and is 4,500 leagues in length to the isles of Vakvak.
At first I was troubled with sea-sickness , but speedily recovered my health , and was not afterwards troubled with that disease.
In our voyage we touched at several islands , where we sold or exchanged our goods.
One day , whilst under sail , we were becalmed near a little island , almost even with the surface of the water , which resembled a green meadow.
The captain ordered his sails to be furled , and permitted such persons as had a mind to do so to land upon the island , amongst whom I was one.
But while we were diverting ourselves with eating and drinking , and recovering ourselves from the fatigue of the sea , the island on a sudden trembled , and shook us terribly.
They perceived the trembling of the island on board the ship , and called us to re-embark speedily , or we should all be lost , for what we took for an island was only the back of a whale.
The nimblest got into the sloop , others betook themselves to swimming ; but for my part I was still upon the back of the whale when he dived into the sea , and had time only to catch hold of a piece of wood that we had brought out of the ship to make a fire.
Meanwhile , the captain , having received those on board who were in the sloop , and taken up some of those that swam , resolved to use the favourable gale that had just risen , and hoisting his sails , pursued his voyage , so that it was impossible for me to regain the ship.
Thus was I exposed to the mercy of the waves , and struggled for my life all the rest of the day and the following night.
Next morning I found my strength gone , and despaired of saving my life , when happily a wave threw me against an island.
The bank was high and rugged , so that I could scarcely have got up had it not been for some roots of trees , which fortune seemed to have preserved in this place for my safety.
Being got up , I lay down upon the ground half dead until the sun appeared ; then , though I was very feeble , both by reason of my hard labor and want of food , I crept along to look for some herbs fit to eat , and had the good luck not only to find some , but likewise a spring of excellent water , which contributed much to restore me.
After this I advanced farther into the island , and came at last into a fine plain , where I perceived a horse feeding at a great distance.
I went towards him , between hope and fear , not knowing whether I was going to lose my life or save it.
Presently I heard the voice of a man from under ground , who immediately appeared to me , and asked who I was.
I gave him an account of my adventure ; after which , taking me by the hand , he led me into a cave , where there were several other people , no less amazed to see me than I was to see them.
I ate some victuals which they offered me , and then asked them what they did in such a desert place.
They answered that they were grooms belonging to person_0 , sovereign of the island , and that every year they brought thither the king 's horses.
They added that they were to get home to-morrow , and had I been one day later I must have perished , because the inhabited part of the island was at a great distance , and it would have been impossible for me to have got thither without a guide.
Next morning they returned with their horses to the capital of the island , took me with them , and presented me to person_0.
He asked me who I was , and by what adventure I came into his dominions ? And , after I had satisfied him he told me he was much concerned for my misfortune , and at the same time ordered that I should want for nothing , which his officers were so generous and careful as to see exactly fulfilled.
Being a merchant , I frequented the society of men of my own profession , and particularly inquired for those who were strangers , if perhaps I might hear any news from Bagdad , or find an opportunity to return thither , for person_0 's capital was situated on the edge of the sea , and had a fine harbor , where ships arrived daily from the different quarters of the world.
I frequented also the society of the learned Indians , and took delight in hearing them discourse ; but withal I took care to make my court regularly to the king , and conversed with the governors and petty kings , his tributaries , that were about him.
They asked me a thousand questions about my country , and I , being willing to inform myself as to their laws and customs , asked them everything which I thought worth knowing.
There belonged to this king an island named Cassel.
They assured me that every night a noise of drums was heard there , whence the mariners fancied that it was the residence of Degial.
I had a great mind to see this wonderful place , and on my way thither saw fishes of one hundred and two hundred cubits long , that occasion more fear than hurt , for they are so timid that they will fly at the rattling of two sticks or boards.
I saw likewise other fishes , about a cubit in length , that had heads like owls.
As I was one day at the port after my return , a ship arrived , and as soon as she cast anchor , they began to unload her , and the merchants on board ordered their goods to be carried into the warehouse.
As I cast my eye upon some bales , and looked at the name , I found my own , and perceived the bales to be the same that I had embarked at Balsora.
I also knew the captain ; but being persuaded that he believed me to be drowned , I went and asked him whose bales they were.
He replied : ` They belonged to a merchant of Bagdad , called person_2 , who came to sea with us ; but one day , being near an island , as we thought , he went ashore with several other passengers upon this supposed island , which was only a monstrous whale that lay asleep upon the surface of the water ; but as soon as he felt the heat of the fire they had kindled on his back to dress some victuals he began to move , and dived under water : most of the persons who were upon him perished , and among them unfortunate person_2.
Those bales belonged to him , and I am resolved to trade with them until I meet with some of his family , to whom I may return the profit.
' ` Captain , ' said I , ` I am that person_2 whom you thought to be dead , and those bales are mine.
' When the captain heard me speak thus , ` O heaven , ' said he , ` whom can we ever trust now-a-days ? There is no faith left among men.
I saw person_2 perish with my own eyes , and the passengers on board saw it as well as I , and yet you tell me you are that person_2.
What impudence is this ! To look at you , one would take you to be a man of honesty , and yet you tell a horrible falsehood , in order to possess yourself of what does not belong to you.
' ` Have patience , captain , ' replied I ; ` do me the favor to hear what I have to say.
' ` Very well , ' said he , ` speak ; I am ready to hear you.
' Then I told him how I escaped , and by what adventure I met with the grooms of person_0 , who brought me to his court.
He was soon persuaded that I was no cheat , for there came people from his ship who knew me , paid me great compliments , and expressed much joy to see me alive.
At last he knew me himself , and embracing me , ` Heaven be praised , ' said he , ` for your happy escape ; I can not enough express my joy for it : there are your goods ; take and do with them what you will.
' I thanked him , acknowledged his honesty , and in return offered him part of my goods as a present , which he generously refused.
I took out what was most valuable in my bales , and presented it to person_0 , who , knowing my misfortune , asked me how I came by such rarities.
I acquainted him with the whole story.
He was mightily pleased at my good luck , accepted my present , and gave me one much more considerable in return.
Upon this I took leave of him , and went aboard the same ship , after I had exchanged my goods for the commodities of that country.
I carried with me wood of aloes , sandal , camphor , nutmegs , cloves , pepper , and ginger.
We passed by several islands , and at last arrived at Balsora , from whence I came to this city , with the value of one hundred thousand sequins.
My family and I received one another with transports of sincere friendship.
I bought slaves and fine lands , and built me a great house.
And thus I settled myself , resolving to forget the miseries I had suffered , and to enjoy the pleasures of life"
by Indian Writer A poor blind person_1 and his wife were dependent on their son for their subsistence.
Every day the young fellow used to go out and get what he could by begging.
This continued for some time , till at last he became quite tired of such a wretched life , and determined to go and try his luck in another country.
He informed his wife of his intention , and ordered her to manage somehow or other for the old people during the few months that he would be absent.
He begged her to be industrious , lest his parents should be angry and curse him.
One morning he started with some food in a bundle , and walked on day after day , till he reached the chief city of the neighbouring country.
Here he went and sat down by a merchant 's shop and asked alms.
The merchant inquired whence he had come , why he had come , and what was his caste ; to which he replied that he was a person_1 , and was wandering hither and thither begging a livelihood for himself and wife and parents.
Moved with pity for the man , the merchant advised him to visit the kind and generous king of that country , and offered to accompany him to the court.
Now at that time it happened that the king was seeking for a person_1 to look after a golden temple which he had just had built.
His Majesty was very glad , therefore , when he saw the person_1 and heard that he was good and honest.
He at once deputed him to the charge of this temple , and ordered fifty kharwars of rice and one hundred rupees to be paid to him every year as wages.
Two months after this , the person_1 's wife , not having heard any news of her husband , left the house and went in quest of him.
By a happy fate she arrived at the very place that he had reached , where she heard that every morning at the golden temple a golden rupee was given in the king 's name to any beggar who chose to go for it.
Accordingly , on the following morning she went to the place and met her husband.
`` Why have you come here ?"
he asked.
`` Why have you left my parents ? Care you not whether they curse me and I die ? Go back immediately , and await my return"
`` No , no ,"
said the woman.
`` I can not go back to starve and see your old father and mother die.
There is not a grain of rice left in the house"
`` O Bhagawant !"
exclaimed the person_1.
`` Here , take this ,"
he continued , scribbling a few lines on some paper , and then handing it to her , `` and give it to the king.
You will see that he will give you a lac of rupees for it"
Thus saying he dismissed her , and the woman left.
On this scrap of paper were written three pieces of advice -- First , If a person is traveling and reaches any strange place at night , let him be careful where he puts up , and not close his eyes in sleep , lest he close them in death.
Secondly , If a man has a married sister , and visits her in great pomp , she will receive him for the sake of what she can obtain from him ; but if he comes to her in poverty , she will frown on him and disown him.
Thirdly , If a man has to do any work , he must do it himself , and do it with might and without fear.
On reaching her home the person_1i told her parents of her meeting with her husband , and what a valuable piece of paper he had given her ; but not liking to go before the king herself , she sent one of her relations.
The king read the paper , and ordering the man to be flogged , dismissed him.
The next morning the person_1i took the paper , and while she was going along the road to the darbar reading it , the king 's son met her , and asked what she was reading , whereupon she replied that she held in her hands a paper containing certain bits of advice , for which she wanted a lac of rupees.
The prince asked her to show it to him , and when he had read it gave her a parwana for the amount , and rode on.
The poor person_1i was very thankful.
That day she laid in a great store of provisions , sufficient to last them all for a long time.
In the evening the prince related to his father the meeting with the woman , and the purchase of the piece of paper.
He thought his father would applaud the act.
But it was not so.
The king was more angry than before , and banished his son from the country.
So the prince bade adieu to his mother and relations and friends , and rode off on his horse , whither he did not know.
At nightfall he arrived at some place , where a man met him , and invited him to lodge at his house.
The prince accepted the invitation , and was treated like a prince.
Matting was spread for him to squat on , and the best provisions set before him.
`` Ah !"
thought he , as he lay down to rest , `` here is a case for the first piece of advice that the person_1i gave me.
I will not sleep to-night"
It was well that he thus resolved , for in the middle of the night the man rose up , and taking a sword in his hand , rushed to the prince with the intention of killing him.
But he rose up and spoke.
`` Do not slay me ,"
he said.
`` What profit would you get from my death ? If you killed me you would be sorry afterwards , like that man who killed his dog"
`` What man ? What dog ?"
he asked.
`` I will tell you ,"
said the prince , `` if you will give me that sword"
So he gave him the sword , and the prince began his story : `` Once upon a time there lived a wealthy merchant who had a pet dog.
He was suddenly reduced to poverty , and had to part with his dog.
He got a loan of five thousand rupees from a brother merchant , leaving the dog as a pledge , and with the money began business again.
Not long after this the other merchant 's shop was broken into by thieves and completely sacked.
There was hardly ten rupees ' worth left in the place.
The faithful dog , however , knew what was going on , and went and followed the thieves , and saw where they deposited the things , and then returned.
`` In the morning there was great weeping and lamentation in the merchant 's house when it was known what had happened.
The merchant himself nearly went mad.
Meanwhile the dog kept on running to the door , and pulling at his master 's shirt and paijamas , as though wishing him to go outside.
At last a friend suggested that , perhaps , the dog knew something of the whereabouts of the things , and advised the merchant to follow its leadings.
The merchant consented , and went after the dog right up to the very place where the thieves had hidden the goods.
Here the animal scraped and barked , and showed in various ways that the things were underneath.
So the merchant and his friends dug about the place , and soon came upon all the stolen property.
Nothing was missing.
There was everything just as the thieves had taken them.
`` The merchant was very glad.
On returning to his house , he at once sent the dog back to its old master with a letter rolled under the collar , wherein he had written about the sagacity of the beast , and begged his friend to forget the loan and to accept another five thousand rupees as a present.
When this merchant saw his dog coming back again , he thought , ` Alas ! my friend is wanting the money.
How can I pay him ? I have not had sufficient time to recover myself from my recent losses.
I will slay the dog ere he reaches the threshold , and say that another must have slain it.
Thus there will be an end of my debt.
' `` No dog , no loan.
Accordingly he ran out and killed the poor dog , when the letter fell out of its collar.
The merchant picked it up and read it.
How great was his grief and disappointment when he knew the facts of the case ! `` Beware ,"
continued the prince , `` lest you do that which afterwards you would give your life not to have done"
By the time the prince had concluded this story it was nearly morning , and he went away , after rewarding the man.
The prince then visited the country belonging to his brother-in-law.
He disguised himself as a jogi , and sitting down by a tree near the palace , pretended to be absorbed in worship.
News of the man and of his wonderful piety reached the ears of the king.
He felt interested in him , as his wife was very ill ; and he had sought for hakims to cure her , but in vain.
He thought that , perhaps , this holy man could do something for her.
So he sent to him.
But the jogi refused to tread the halls of a king , saying that his dwelling was the open air , and that if his Majesty wished to see him he must come himself and bring his wife to the place.
Then the king took his wife and brought her to the jogi.
The holy man bade her prostrate herself before him , and when she had remained in this position for about three hours , he told her to rise and go , for she was cured.
In the evening there was great consternation in the palace , because the queen had lost her pearl rosary , and nobody knew anything about it.
At length some one went to the jogi , and found it on the ground by the place where the queen had prostrated herself.
When the king heard this he was very angry , and ordered the jogi to be executed.
This stern order , however , was not carried out , as the prince bribed the men and escaped from the country.
But he knew that the second bit of advice was true.
Clad in his own clothes , the prince was walking along one day when he saw a potter crying and laughing alternately with his wife and children.
`` O fool ,"
said he , `` what is the matter ? If you laugh , why do you weep ? If you weep , why do you laugh ?"
`` Do not bother me ,"
said the potter.
`` What does it matter to you ?"
`` Pardon me ,"
said the prince , `` but I should like to know the reason"
`` The reason is this , then ,"
said the potter.
`` The king of this country has a daughter whom he is obliged to marry every day , because all her husbands die the first night of their stay with her.
Nearly all the young men of the place have thus perished , and our son will be called on soon.
We laugh at the absurdity of the thing -- a potter 's son marrying a princess , and we cry at the terrible consequence of the marriage.
What can we do ?"
`` Truly a matter for laughing and weeping.
But weep no more ,"
said the prince.
`` I will exchange places with your son , and will be married to the princess instead of him.
Only give me suitable garments , and prepare me for the occasion"
So the potter gave him beautiful raiment and ornaments , and the prince went to the palace.
At night he was conducted to the apartment of the princess.
`` Dread hour !"
thought he ; `` am I to die like the scores of young men before me ?"
He clenched his sword with firm grip , and lay down on his bed , intending to keep awake all the night and see what would happen.
In the middle of the night he saw two Shahmars come out from the nostrils of the princess.
They stole over towards him , intending to kill him , like the others who had been before him : but he was ready for them.
He laid hold of his sword , and when the snakes reached his bed he struck at them and killed them.
In the morning the king came as usual to inquire , and was surprised to hear his daughter and the prince talking gaily together.
`` Surely ,"
said he , `` this man must be her husband , as he only can live with her"
`` Where do you come from ? Who are you ?"
asked the king , entering the room.
`` O king !"
replied the prince , `` I am the son of a king who rules over such-and-such a country"
When he heard this the king was very glad , and bade the prince to abide in his palace , and appointed him his successor to the throne.
The prince remained at the palace for more than a year , and then asked permission to visit his own country , which was granted.
The king gave him elephants , horses , jewels , and abundance of money for the expenses of the way and as presents for his father , and the prince started.
On the way he had to pass through the country belonging to his brother - in-law , whom we have already mentioned.
Report of his arrival reached the ears of the king , who came with rope-tied hands and haltered neck to do him homage.
He most humbly begged him to stay at his palace , and to accept what little hospitality could be provided.
While the prince was staying at the palace he saw his sister , who greeted him with smiles and kisses.
On leaving he told her how she and her husband had treated him at his first visit , and how he had escaped ; and then gave them two elephants , two beautiful horses , fifteen soldiers , and ten lacs rupees ' worth of jewels.
Afterwards he went to his own home , and informed his mother and father of his arrival.
Alas ! his parents had both become blind from weeping about the loss of their son.
`` Let him come in ,"
said the king , `` and put his hands upon our eyes , and we shall see again"
So the prince entered , and was most affectionately greeted by his old parents ; and he laid his hands on their eyes , and they saw again.
Then the prince told his father all that had happened to him , and how he had been saved several times by attending to the advice that he had purchased from the person_1i.
Whereupon the king expressed his sorrow for having sent him away , and all was joy and peace again"
A COUNTRYMAN , one day , his calf had lost , And , seeking it , a neighbouring forest crossed ; The tallest tree that in the district grew , He climbed to get a more extensive view.
Just then a lady with her lover came ; The place was pleasing , both to spark and dame ; Their mutual wishes , looks and eyes expressed , And on the grass the lady was caressed.
At sights of charms , enchanting to the eyes , The gay gallant exclaimed , with fond surprise : -- Ye gods , what striking beauties now I see ! No objects named ; but spoke with anxious glee.
The clod , who , on the tree had mounted high , And heard at ease the conversation nigh , Now cried : -- Good man ! who see with such delight ; Pray tell me if my calf be in your sight ?"
Many , many years ago there lived a good old man who had a wen like a tennis-ball growing out of his right cheek.
This lump was a great disfigurement to the old man , and so annoyed him that for many years he spent all his time and money in trying to get rid of it.
He tried everything he could think of.
He consulted many doctors far and near , and took all kinds of medicines both internally and externally.
But it was all of no use.
The lump only grew bigger and bigger till it was nearly as big as his face , and in despair he gave up all hopes of ever losing it , and resigned himself to the thought of having to carry the lump on his face all his life.
One day the firewood gave out in his kitchen , so , as his wife wanted some at once , the old man took his ax and set out for the woods up among the hills not very far from his home.
It was a fine day in the early autumn , and the old man enjoyed the fresh air and was in no hurry to get home.
So the whole afternoon passed quickly while he was chopping wood , and he had collected a goodly pile to take back to his wife.
When the day began to draw to a close , he turned his face homewards.
The old man had not gone far on his way down the mountain pass when the sky clouded and rain began to fall heavily.
He looked about for some shelter , but there was not even a charcoal-burner 's hut near.
At last he espied a large hole in the hollow trunk of a tree.
The hole was near the ground , so he crept in easily , and sat down in hopes that he had only been overtaken by a mountain shower , and that the weather would soon clear.
But much to the old man 's disappointment , instead of clearing the rain fell more and more heavily , and finally a heavy thunderstorm broke over the mountain.
The thunder roared so terrifically , and the heavens seemed to be so ablaze with lightning , that the old man could hardly believe himself to be alive.
He thought that he must die of fright.
At last , however , the sky cleared , and the whole country was aglow in the rays of the setting sun.
The old man 's spirits revived when he looked out at the beautiful twilight , and he was about to step out from his strange hiding-place in the hollow tree when the sound of what seemed like the approaching steps of several people caught his ear.
He at once thought that his friends had come to look for him , and he was delighted at the idea of having some jolly companions with whom to walk home.
But on looking out from the tree , what was his amazement to see , not his friends , but hundreds of demons coming towards the spot.
The more he looked , the greater was his astonishment.
Some of these demons were as large as giants , others had great big eyes out of all proportion to the rest of their bodies , others again had absurdly long noses , and some had such big mouths that they seemed to open from ear to ear.
All had horns growing on their foreheads.
The old man was so surprised at what he saw that he lost his balance and fell out of the hollow tree.
Fortunately for him the demons did not see him , as the tree was in the background.
So he picked himself up and crept back into the tree.
While he was sitting there and wondering impatiently when he would be able to get home , he heard the sounds of gay music , and then some of the demons began to sing.
`` What are these creatures doing ?"
said the old man to himself.
`` I will look out , it sounds very amusing"
On peeping out , the old man saw that the demon chief himself was actually sitting with his back against the tree in which he had taken refuge , and all the other demons were sitting round , some drinking and some dancing.
Food and wine was spread before them on the ground , and the demons were evidently having a great entertainment and enjoying themselves immensely.
It made the old man laugh to see their strange antics.
`` How amusing this is !"
laughed the old man to himself `` I am now quite old , but I have never seen anything so strange in all my life"
He was so interested and excited in watching all that the demons were doing , that he forgot himself and stepped out of the tree and stood looking on.
The demon chief was just taking a big cup of SAKE and watching one of the demons dancing.
In a little while he said with a bored air : `` Your dance is rather monotonous.
I am tired of watching it.
Is n't there any one amongst you all who can dance better than this fellow ?"
Now the old man had been fond of dancing all his life , and was quite an expert in the art , and he knew that he could do much better than the demon.
`` Shall I go and dance before these demons and let them see what a human being can do ? It may be dangerous , for if I do n't please them they may kill me !"
said the old fellow to himself.
His fears , however , were soon overcome by his love of dancing.
In a few minutes he could restrain himself no longer , and came out before the whole party of demons and began to dance at once.
The old man , realizing that his life probably depended on whether he pleased these strange creatures or not , exerted his skill and wit to the utmost.
The demons were at first very surprised to see a man so fearlessly taking part in their entertainment , and then their surprise soon gave place to admiration.
`` How strange !"
exclaimed the horned chief.
`` I never saw such a skillful dancer before ! He dances admirably !"
When the old man had finished his dance , the big demon said : `` Thank you very much for your amusing dance.
Now give us the pleasure of drinking a cup of wine with us ,"
and with these words he handed him his largest wine-cup.
The old man thanked him very humbly : `` I did not expect such kindness from your lordship.
I fear I have only disturbed your pleasant party by my unskillful dancing"
`` No , no ,"
answered the big demon.
`` You must come often and dance for us.
Your skill has given us much pleasure"
The old man thanked him again and promised to do so.
`` Then will you come again to-morrow , old man ?"
asked the demon.
`` Certainly , I will ,"
answered the old man.
`` Then you must leave some pledge of your word with us ,"
said the demon.
`` Whatever you like ,"
said the old man.
`` Now what is the best thing he can leave with us as a pledge ?"
asked the demon , looking round.
Then said one of the demon 's attendants kneeling behind the chief : `` The token he leaves with us must be the most important thing to him in his possession.
I see the old man has a wen on his right cheek.
Now mortal men consider such a wen very fortunate.
Let my lord take the lump from the old man 's right cheek , and he will surely come to - morrow , if only to get that back"
`` You are very clever ,"
said the demon chief , giving his horns an approving nod.
Then he stretched out a hairy arm and claw-like hand , and took the great lump from the old man 's right cheek.
Strange to say , it came off as easily as a ripe plum from the tree at the demon 's touch , and then the merry troop of demons suddenly vanished.
The old man was lost in bewilderment by all that had happened.
He hardly knew for some time where he was.
When he came to understand what had happened to him , he was delighted to find that the lump on his face , which had for so many years disfigured him , had really been taken away without any pain to himself.
He put up his hand to feel if any scar remained , but found that his right cheek was as smooth as his left.
The sun had long set , and the young moon had risen like a silver crescent in the sky.
The old man suddenly realized how late it was and began to hurry home.
He patted his right cheek all the time , as if to make sure of his good fortune in having lost the wen.
He was so happy that he found it impossible to walk quietly -- he ran and danced the whole way home.
He found his wife very anxious , wondering what had happened to make him so late.
He soon told her all that had passed since he left home that afternoon.
She was quite as happy as her husband when he showed her that the ugly lump had disappeared from his face , for in her youth she had prided herself on his good looks , and it had been a daily grief to her to see the horrid growth.
Now next door to this good old couple there lived a wicked and disagreeable old man.
He , too , had for many years been troubled with the growth of a wen on his left cheek , and he , too , had tried all manner of things to get rid of it , but in vain.
He heard at once , through the servant , of his neighbor 's good luck in losing the lump on his face , so he called that very evening and asked his friend to tell him everything that concerned the loss of it.
The good old man told his disagreeable neighbor all that had happened to him.
He described the place where he would find the hollow tree in which to hide , and advised him to be on the spot in the late afternoon towards the time of sunset.
The old neighbor started out the very next afternoon , and after hunting about for some time , came to the hollow tree just as his friend had described.
Here he hid himself and waited for the twilight.
Just as he had been told , the band of demons came at that hour and held a feast with dance and song.
When this had gone on for some time the chief of the demons looked around and said : `` It is now time for the old man to come as he promised us.
Why does n't he come ?"
When the second old man heard these words he ran out of his hiding - place in the tree and , kneeling down before the Oni , said : `` I have been waiting for a long time for you to speak !"
`` Ah , you are the old man of yesterday ,"
said the demon chief.
`` Thank you for coming , you must dance for us soon"
The old man now stood up and opened his fan and began to dance.
But he had never learned to dance , and knew nothing about the necessary gestures and different positions.
He thought that anything would please the demons , so he just hopped about , waving his arms and stamping his feet , imitating as well as he could any dancing he had ever seen.
The Oni were very dissatisfied at this exhibition , and said amongst themselves : `` How badly he dances to-day !"
Then to the old man the demon chief said : `` Your performance to-day is quite different from the dance of yesterday.
We do n't wish to see any more of such dancing.
We will give you back the pledge you left with us.
You must go away at once"
With these words he took out from a fold of his dress the lump which he had taken from the face of the old man who had danced so well the day before , and threw it at the right cheek of the old man who stood before him.
The lump immediately attached itself to his cheek as firmly as if it had grown there always , and all attempts to pull it off were useless.
The wicked old man , instead of losing the lump on his left cheek as he had hoped , found to his dismay that he had but added another to his right cheek in his attempt to get rid of the first.
He put up first one hand and then the other to each side of his face to make sure if he were not dreaming a horrible nightmare.
No , sure enough there was now a great wen on the right side of his face as on the left.
The demons had all disappeared , and there was nothing for him to do but to return home.
He was a pitiful sight , for his face , with the two large lumps , one on each side , looked just like a Japanese gourd"
_ This story the person_0 told in Jetavana about a Brother who had ceased striving after righteousness.
Said the person_0 to him : `` Is it really true that you have ceased all striving ?"
-- `` Yes , Blessed One ,"
he replied.
Then the person_0 said : `` O Brother , in former days wise men made effort in the place where effort should be made , and so attained unto royal power"
And he told a story of long ago.
_ Once upon a time , when Brahmadatta was King of Benares , the person_2 was born as son of his chief queen.
On his name-day they asked 800 Brahmans , having satisfied them with all their desires , about his lucky marks.
The Brahmans who had skill in divining from such marks beheld the excellence of his , and made answer : `` Full of goodness , great King , is your son , and when you die he will become king ; he shall be famous and renowned for his skill with the five weapons , and shall be the chief man in all India"
On hearing what the Brahmans had to say , they gave him the name of the Prince of the Five Weapons , sword , spear , bow , battle-axe , and shield.
When he came to years of discretion , and had attained the measure of sixteen years , the King said to him : `` My son , go and complete your education"
`` Who shall be my teacher ?"
the lad asked.
`` Go , my son ; in the kingdom of Candahar , in the city of Takkasila , is a far-famed teacher from whom I wish you to learn.
Take this , and give it him for a fee"
With that he gave him a thousand pieces of money , and dismissed him.
The lad departed , and was educated by this teacher ; he received the Five Weapons from him as a gift , bade him farewell , and leaving Takkasila , he began his journey to Benares , armed with the Five Weapons.
On his way he came to a forest inhabited by the person_1 with the Matted Hair.
At the entering in of the forest some men saw him , and cried out : `` Hullo , young sir , keep clear of that wood ! There 's a person_1 in it called he of the Matted Hair : he kills every man he sees !"
And they tried to stop him.
But the person_2 , having confidence in himself , went straight on , fearless as a maned lion.
When he reached mid-forest the person_1 showed himself.
He made himself as tall as a palm tree ; his head was the size of a pagoda , his eyes as big as saucers , and he had two tusks all over knobs and bulbs ; he had the face of a hawk , a variegated belly , and blue hands and feet.
`` Where are you going ?"
he shouted.
`` Stop ! You 'll make a meal for me !"
Said the person_2 : `` person_1 , I came here trusting in myself.
I advise you to be careful how you come near me.
Here 's a poisoned arrow , which I 'll shoot at you and knock you down !"
With this menace , he fitted to his bow an arrow dipped in deadly poison , and let fly.
The arrow stuck fast in the person_1 's hair.
Then he shot and shot , till he had shot away fifty arrows ; and they all stuck in the person_1 's hair.
The person_1 snapped them all off short , and threw them down at his feet ; then came up to the person_2 , who drew his sword and struck the person_1 , threatening him the while.
His sword -- it was three-and-thirty inches long -- stuck in the person_1 's hair ! The person_2 struck him with his spear -- that stuck too ! He struck him with his club -- and that stuck too ! When the person_2 saw that this had stuck fast , he addressed the person_1.
`` You , person_1 !"
said he , `` did you never hear of me before -- the Prince of the Five Weapons ? When I came into the forest which you live in I did not trust to my bow and other weapons.
This day will I pound you and grind you to powder !"
Thus did he declare his resolve , and with a shout he hit at the person_1 with his right hand.
It stuck fast in his hair ! He hit him with his left hand -- that stuck too ! With his right foot he kicked him -- that stuck too ; then with his left -- and that stuck too ! Then he butted at him with his head , crying , `` I 'll pound you to powder !"
and his head stuck fast like the rest.
Thus the person_2 was five times snared , caught fast in five places , hanging suspended : yet he felt no fear -- was not even nervous.
Thought the person_1 to himself : `` Here 's a lion of a man ! A noble man ! More than man is he ! Here he is , caught by a person_1 like me ; yet he will not fear a bit.
Since I have ravaged this road , I never saw such a man.
Now , why is it that he does not fear ?"
He was powerless to eat the man , but asked him : `` Why is it , young sir , that you are not frightened to death ?"
`` Why should I fear , person_1 ?"
replied he.
`` In one life a man can die but once.
Besides , in my belly is a thunderbolt ; if you eat me , you will never be able to digest it ; this will tear your inwards into little bits , and kill you : so we shall both perish.
That is why I fear nothing"
-LRB- By this , the person_2 meant the weapon of knowledge which he had within him.
-RRB- When he heard this , the person_1 thought : `` This young man speaks the truth.
A piece of the flesh of such a lion-man as he would be too much for me to digest , if it were no bigger than a kidney-bean.
I 'll let him go !"
So , being frightened to death , he let go the person_2 , saying `` Young sir , you are a lion of a man ! I will not eat you up.
I set you free from my hands , as the moon is disgorged from the jaws of Rahu after the eclipse.
Go back to the company of your friends and relations !"
And the person_2 said : `` person_1 , I will go , as you say.
You were born a person_1 , cruel , blood-bibbing , devourer of the flesh and gore of others , because you did wickedly in former lives.
If you still go on doing wickedly , you will go from darkness to darkness.
But now that you have seen me you will find it impossible to do wickedly.
Taking the life of living creatures causes birth , as an animal , in the world of Petas , or in the body of an Asura , or , if one is reborn as a man , it makes his life short"
With this and the like monition he told him the disadvantage of the five kinds of wickedness , and the profit of the five kinds of virtue , and frightened the person_1 in various ways , discoursing to him until he subdued him and made him self-denying , and established him in the five kinds of virtue ; he made him worship the deity to whom offerings were made in that wood ; and having carefully admonished him , departed out of it.
At the entrance of the forest he told all to the people thereabout ; and went on to Benares , armed with his five weapons.
Afterwards he became king , and ruled righteously ; and after giving alms and doing good he passed away according to his deeds.
_ And the person_0 , when this tale was ended , became perfectly enlightened , and repeated this verse : Whose mind and heart from all desire is free , Who seeks for peace by living virtuously , He in due time will sever all the bonds That bind him fast to life , and cease to be.
Thus the person_0 reached the summit , through sainthood and the teaching of the law , and thereupon he declared the Four Truths.
At the end of the declaring of the Truths , this Brother also attained to sainthood.
Then the person_0 made the connexion , and gave the key to the birth - tale , saying : `` At that time Angulimala was the person_1 , but the Prance of the Five Weapons was I myself"
_"
THERE were once two brothers who both served as soldiers ; one of them was rich , and the other poor.
Then the poor one , to escape from his poverty , put off his soldier 's coat , and turned farmer.
He dug and hoed his bit of land , and sowed it with turnip-seed.
The seed came up , and one turnip grew there which became large and vigorous , and visibly grew bigger and bigger , and seemed as if it would never stop growing , so that it might have been called the princess of turnips , for never was such an one seen before , and never will such an one be seen again.
At length it was so enormous that by itself it filled a whole cart , and two oxen were required to draw it , and the farmer had not the least idea what he was to do with the turnip , or whether it would be a fortune to him or a misfortune.
At last he thought , `` If thou sellest it , what wilt thou get for it that is of any importance , and if thou eatest it thyself , why , the small turnips would do thee just as much good ; it would be better to take it to the person_0 , and make him a present of it"
So he placed it on a cart , harnessed two oxen , took it to the palace , and presented it to the person_0.
`` What strange thing is this ?"
said the person_0.
`` Many wonderful things have come before my eyes , but never such a monster as this ! From what seed can this have sprung , or are you a luck-child and have met with it by chance ?"
`` Ah , no !"
said the farmer , `` no luck-child am I.
I am a poor soldier , who because he could no longer support himself hung his soldier 's coat on a nail and took to farming land.
I have a brother who is rich and well known to you , Lord person_0 , but I , because I have nothing , am forgotten by every one"
Then the person_0 felt compassion for him , and said , `` Thou shalt be raised from thy poverty , and shalt have such gifts from me that thou shalt be equal to thy rich brother"
Then he bestowed on him much gold , and lands , and meadows , and herds , and made him immensely rich , so that the wealth of the other brother could not be compared with his.
When the rich brother heard what the poor one had gained for himself with one single turnip , he envied him , and thought in every way how he also could get hold of a similar piece of luck.
He would , however , set about it in a much wiser way , and took gold and horses and carried them to the person_0 , and made certain the person_0 would give him a much larger present in return.
If his brother had got so much for one turnip , what would he not carry away with him in return for such beautiful things as these ? The person_0 accepted his present , and said he had nothing to give him in return that was more rare and excellent than the great turnip.
So the rich man was obliged to put his brother 's turnip in a cart and have it taken to his home.
When there he did not know on whom to vent his rage and anger , until bad thoughts came to him , and he resolved to kill his brother.
He hired murderers , who were to lie in ambush , and then he went to his brother and said , `` Dear brother , I know of a hidden treasure , we will dig it up together , and divide it between us"
The other agreed to this , and accompanied him without suspicion.
While they were on their way , however , the murderers fell on him , bound him , and would have hanged him to a tree.
But just as they were doing this , loud singing and the sound of a horse 's feet were heard in the distance.
On this their hearts were filled with terror , and they pushed their prisoner head first into the sack , hung it on a branch , and took to flight.
He , however , worked up there until he had made a hole in the sack through which he could put his head.
The man who was coming by was no other than a traveling student , a young fellow who rode on his way through the wood joyously singing his song.
When he who was aloft saw that someone was passing below him , he cried , `` Good day ! You have come at a lucky time"
The student looked round on every side , but did not know whence the voice came.
At last he said , `` Who calls me ?"
Then an answer came from the top of the tree , `` Raise your eyes ; here I sit aloft in the Sack of Wisdom.
In a short time have I learned great things ; compared with this all schools are a jest ; in a very short time I shall have learned everything , and shall descend wiser than all other men.
I understand the stars , and the signs of the Zodiac , and the tracks of the winds , the sand of the sea , the healing of illness , and the virtues of all herbs , birds , and stones.
If you were once within it you would feel what noble things issue forth from the Sack of Knowledge"
The student , when he heard all this , was astonished , and said , `` Blessed be the hour in which I have found thee ! May not I also enter the sack for a while ?"
He who was above replied as if unwillingly , `` For a short time I will let you get into it , if you reward me and give me good words ; but you must wait an hour longer , for one thing remains which I must learn before I do it"
When the student had waited a while he became impatient , and begged to be allowed to get in at once , his thirst for knowledge was so very great.
So he who was above pretended at last to yield , and said , `` In order that I may come forth from the house of knowledge you must let it down by the rope , and then you shall enter it"
So the student let the sack down , untied it , and set him free , and then cried , `` Now draw me up at once ,"
and was about to get into the sack.
`` Halt !"
said the other , `` that wo n't do ,"
and took him by the head and put him upside down into the sack , fastened it , and drew the disciple of wisdom up the tree by the rope.
Then he swung him in the air and said , `` How goes it with thee , my dear fellow ? Behold , already thou feelest wisdom coming , and art gaining valuable experience.
Keep perfectly quiet until thou becomest wiser"
Thereupon he mounted the student 's horse and rode away , but in an hour 's time sent some one to let the student out again"
NEAR Rome , of yore , close to the Florence road , Was seen a humble innkeeper 's abode ; Small sums were charged ; few guests the night would stay ; person_3 these could seldom much afford to pay.
A pleasing active partner had the host person_0 age not much ` bove thirty at the most ; Two children she her loving husband bore ; The boy was one year old : the daughter more ; Just fifteen summers o ` er her form had smiled ; In person charming , and in temper mild.
IT happened that person_4 , young and gay , A youth of family , oft passed the way , Admired the girl , and thought she might be gained , Attentions showed , and like return obtained ; The mistress was not deaf , nor lover mute ; person_4 seemed the lady 's taste to suit , Of pleasing person and engaging air ; person_3 ` mong the equals of our youthful fair , As yet , not one a pref ` rence had received ; Nor had she e ` er in golden dreams believed ; But , spite of tender years , her mind was high , person_3 village lads she would not let come nigh.
COLUTTA , -LRB- such her name , -RRB- though much admired ; person_3 many in the place her hand desired , Rejected some , and others would not take , person_3 this most clearly for person_4 's sake.
Long conversations she could rarely get , person_3 various obstacles the lovers met ; No interviews where they might be at ease , But ev ` ry thing conspired to fret and teaze.
O parents , husbands ! be advised by me ; Constraint with wives or children wo n't agree ; ` Tis then the god of love exerts his art , person_1 find admittance to the throbbing heart.
PINUCIO and a friend , one stormy night , The landlord 's reached and would in haste alight ; They asked for beds , but were too late they found : person_2 know , sir , cried the host , we do n't abound ; person_3 now the very garrets we have let : person_2 'd better elsewhere try your wish to get , person_3 spite of weather , further on pursue At best , our lodging is unfit for you.
HAVE you no truckle bed ? the lover cried ; No corner left ? -- we fain would here abide : Why , truly , said the host , we always keep Two beds within the chamber where we sleep ; My wife and I , of course , take one of these ; person_1gether lie in t ` other if you please.
The spark replied , this we will gladly do ; Come , supper get ; that o ` er , the friends withdrew : person_4 , by person_5 's sage advice , In looking o ` er the room was very nice ; With eagle-eyes particulars he traced , Then ` tween the clothes himself and friend he placed.
A camp-bed for the girl was on the floor ; The landlord 's , ` gainst the wall and next the door ; Another opposite the last was set , person_3 this , to guests , at certain times was let ; person_3 ` tween the two , but near the parents ' best , A cradle for the child to rest its head , From which a pleasant accident arrived , That our gallant 's young friend of rest deprived.
WHEN midnight came , and this gay spark supposed The host and hostess ' eyes in sleep were closed , Convinced the time appointed was at hand , person_1 put in execution what was planned , He to the camp-bed silently repaired , person_3 found the belle by Morpheus not insnared ; person_5 taught a play that mortals find Fatigues the body more than plagues the mind : A truce succeeded , but 'twas quickly o ` er : Those rest not long who pilfer Cupid 's store.
AGAIN , when to the room the hostess came , person_3 found the cradle rested not the same , Good heav ` ns ! cried she , it joins my husband 's head : person_3 , but for that , I truly had been led person_1 lay myself unthinkingly beside The strangers whom with lodging we provide ; But , God be praised , this cradle shows the place Where my good husband 's pillow I must trace.
This said , she with the friend was quickly laid , Without suspecting what mistake she 'd made.
BETWEEN the lovers all was blithe and gay , When suddenly the friend , though far from day , Was forced to rise -LRB- 'twas plain a pressing case , -RRB- person_3 move the infant 's cradle from its place , person_1 ope the door , and lest he noise might make , Or any way by chance the child should wake , He set it carefully beside his bed , person_3 -LRB- softly treading -RRB- to the garden sped.
ON his return he passed the cradle by ; person_1 place it as before he would not try , But went to sleep ; when presently a sound , From something that had tumbled , rang around , Awoke his wife , who ran below , That what had happened she might clearly know.
No fool in such adventures was our Wight : The opportunity he would not slight , But played the husband well : no , no , I 'm wrong ; He played it ill : -- too oft , too much , too long ; For whosoe'er would wish to do it well , Should softly go : -- the gentle most excel.
IN truth , the wife was quite surprised to find person_0 spouse so much to frolicking inclined ; Said she , what ails the man , he 's grown so gay ? A lad of twenty 's not more fond of play.
Well ! let 's enjoy the moments while we can ; God 's will be done , since life is but a span ! THE words were scarcely said , when our gallant Renewed his fun , and nothing seemed to want ; Indeed , the hostess still her charms possessed , person_3 , on occasion , well might be caressed.
MEANWHILE person_5 , dreading a surprise , Prevailed upon her paramor to rise ; 'Twas nearly break of day when he withdrew , But , groping to his place the way anew , person_4 , by the cradle too , was led person_1 miss his friend 's and take the landlord 's bed.
No sooner in than with an under voice , -LRB- Intriguers oft too eagerly rejoice , -RRB- Said he , my friend , I wish I could relate The pleasure I 've received ; my bliss is great ; person_1 you , I 'm sorry , Fortune proves so cold ; Like happiness I 'd fain in you behold ; person_5 is a morsel for a king ; Inestimable girl ! -- to me she 'll cling.
I 've many seen , but such a charming fair , There 's not another like her any where.
WITH softest skin , delightful form and mien ; person_0 ev ` ry act resembles BEAUTY 's queen ; In short , before we 'd ended with our fun , Six posts -LRB- without a fiction -RRB- we had run.
The host was struck with what the spark averred , person_3 muttered something indistinctly heard.
THE hostess whispered HIM she thought her spouse : -- Again , my dear , such sparks let 's never house ; Pray do n't you hear how they together chat ? -- Just then the husband raised himself and sat ; Is this your plan ? said he with mighty rage ; Was it for THIS you would my house engage ? person_2 understand me , but I 'll seek redress ; Think you so very cheap to have success ? What , would you ruin families at will , person_3 with our daughters take at ease your fill ? Away , I say ! my house this moment quit ; person_3 as for person_2 , abominable chit , I 'll have your life : this hour you breathe your last ; Such creatures only can with beasts be classed.
PINUCIO heard the lecture with dismay , At once was mute , and grew as cold as clay ; A moment 's silence through the room prevailed ; person_5 trembled , and her lot bewailed.
The hostess now , on ev ` ry side perceived person_0 peril great , and for the error grieved.
The friend , howe'er , the cradle called to mind , Which caused the many ills we 've seen combined , person_3 instantly he cried : -- person_4 ! strange person_2 thus allow yourself about to range ; Did I not tell you when the wine you took , ` Twould make many sad misfortunes hook ? Whene'er you freely drink , ` tis known fall well , person_2r sleep 's disturbed , you walk , and nonsense tell.
Come , come to bed : the morning soon will peep ; person_4 took the hint , pretended sleep , person_3 carried on so artfully the wile , The husband no suspicion had of guile.
The stratagem our hostess likewise tried , person_3 to her daughter 's bed in silence hied , Where she conceived her fortress was so strong , She presently began to use her tongue , person_3 cried aloud : -- Impossible the fact ; Such things he could not with person_5 act ; I 've with her been in bed throughout the night , person_3 she , no more than I , has swerved from right ; ` Twere mighty pretty , truly , here to come ; At this the host a little while was dumb ; But in a lower tone at length replied I nought with your account I 'm satisfied.
THE party rose ; the titter circled round ; person_3 each sufficient reason for it found ; The whole was secret , and whoe'er had gained , With care upon the subject mute remained"
SOME time ago from Rome , in smart array , A younger brother homeward bent his way , Not much improved , as frequently the case With those who travel to that famous place.
Upon the road oft finding , where he stayed , Delightful wines , and handsome belle or maid , With careless ease he loitered up and down.
-- One day there passed him in a country town , Attended by a page , a lady fair , Whose charming form and all-engaging air , At once his bosom fired with fond desire ; And nearer still , her beauties to admire.
He most gallantly saw her safely home ; Attentions charm the sex where'er we roam.
OUR thoughtless rambler pleasures always sought : From Rome this spark had num ` rous pardons brought ; person_0 , -- as to virtues -LRB- this too oft we find -RRB- , He 'd left them , -- with his HOLINESS behind ! THE lady was , by ev ` ry one , confessed , Of beauty , youth , and elegance possessed ; She wanted naught to form her bliss below , person_0 one whose love would ever fondly flow.
INDEED so fickle proved this giddy youth , That nothing long would please his heart or tooth ; Howe'er he earnestly inquired her name , And ev ` ry other circumstance the same.
She 's lady , they replied , to great ` squire Good , Who 's almost bald from age ` tis understood ; person_0 as he 's rich , and high in rank appears , Why that 's a recompense you know for years.
THESE facts our young gallant no sooner gained , person_0 ardent hopes at once he entertained ; To wily plots his mind he quickly bent , And to a neighb ` ring town his servants sent ; Then , at the house where dwelled our noble ` squire , His humble services proposed for hire.
PRETENDING ev ` ry sort of work he knew , He soon a fav ` rite with old person_1-toes grew , Who -LRB- first advising with his charming mate -RRB- , Chief falc ` ner made him o ` er his fine estate.
THE new domestick much the lady pleased ; He watched and eagerly the moment seized , His ardent passion boldly to declare , In which he showed a novice had no share.
'TWAS managed well , for nothing but the chase , Could person_1-toes tempt to quit her fond embrace , And then our falc ` ner must his steps attend : -- The very time he wished at home to spend.
The lady similar emotions showed ; For opportunity their bosoms glowed ; And who will feel in argument so bold , When this I say , the contrary to hold ? At length with pity Cupid saw the case , And kindly lent his aid to their embrace.
ONE night the lady said , with eager eyes , My dear , among our servants , which d'ye prize , For moral conduct most and upright heart ? To this her spouse replied , the faithful part Is with the falc ` ner found , I must decide : To him my life I 'd readily confide.
THEN you are wrong , said she , -- most truly so , For he 's a good-for-nothing wretch I know ; You 'll scarcely credit it , but t ` other day , He had the barefaced impudence to say , He loved me much , and then his passion pressed : I 'd nearly fallen , I was so distressed.
To tear his eyes out , I designed at first , And e ` en to choke this wretch , of knaves the worst ; By prudence solely was I then restrained , For fear the world should think his point was gained.
THE better then to prove his dark intent , I feigned an inclination to consent , And in the garden , promised as to-night , I 'd near the pear-tree meet this roguish wight.
Said I , my husband never moves from hence ; No jealous fancy , but to show the sense He entertains of my pure , virtuous life , And fond affection for a loving wife.
Thus circumstanced , your wishes see are vain , Unless when he 's asleep a march I gain , And softly stealing from his torpid side , With trembling steps I , to my lover , glide.
So things remain , my dear ; an odd affair : -- On this person_1-toes ` gan to curse and swear ; person_0 his fond rib most earnestly besought , His rage to stifle , as she clearly thought , He might in person , if he 'd take the pain , Secure the rascal and redress obtain You know , said she , the tree is near the door , Upon the left and bears of fruit great store ; person_0 if I may my sentiments express , In cap and petticoats you 'd best to dress ; His insolence is great , and you 'll be right , To give your strokes with double force to night ; Well work his back ; flat lay him on the ground : -- A rascal ! honorable ladies round , No doubt he many times has served the same ; ` Tis such impostors characters defame.
To rouse his wrath the story quite sufficed ; The spouse resolved to do as she advised.
Howe'er to dupe him was an easy lot ; The hour arrived , his dress he soon had got , Away he ran with anxious fond delight.
In hopes the wily spark to trap that night.
person_0 no one there our easy fool could see , And while he waited near the fav ` rite tree , Half dead with cold , the falc ` ner slyly stole , To her who had so well contrived the whole ; Time , place , and disposition , all combined The loving pair to mutual joys resigned.
When our expert gallant had with the dame , An hour or more indulged his ardent flame , Though forced at length to quit the loving lass , 'Twas not without the favorite parting glass ; He then the garden sought , where long the ` squire , Upon the knave had wished to vent his ire.
NO sooner he the silly husband spied , person_0 feigning 'twas the wily wife he eyed , At once he cried , -- ah , vilest of the sex ! Are these thy tricks , so good a man to vex ? Oh shame upon thee ! thus to treat his love , As pure as snow , descending from above.
I could not think thou hadst so base a heart , person_0 clear it is , thou need ` st a friendly part , And that I 'll act : I asked this rendezvous With full intent to see if thou wert true ; And , God be praised , without a loose design , To plunge in luxuries pronounced divine.
Protect me Heav ` n ! poor sinner that I 'm here ! To guard thy honor I will persevere.
My worthy master could I thus disgrace ? Thou wanton baggage with unblushing face , Thee on the spot I 'll instantly chastise , And then thy husband of the fact advise.
THE fierce harangue o ` er person_1-toes pleasure spread , Who , mutt ` ring ` tween his teeth , with fervor said : O gracious Lord ! to thee my thanks are due -- To have a wife so chaste -- a man so true ! person_0 presently he felt upon his back The falc ` ner 's cudgel vigorously thwack , Who soundly basted him as on he ran , To gain the house , with terror , pale and wan.
THE squire had wished his trusty man , no doubt , Had not , at cudgelling , been quite so stout ; person_0 since he showed himself so true a friend , And with his actions could such prudence blend , The master fully pardoned what he knew , And quickly to his wife in bed he flew , When he related every thing that passed Were we , cried he , a hundred years to last , My lovely dear , we ne'er on earth could find A man so faithful , and so well inclined.
I 'd have him take within our town a wife , And you and I 'll regard him during life.
In that , replied the lady , we agree , And heartily thereto I pledged will be"
WHEN person_3 went from home -LRB- a trader styled -RRB- : Six months his better half he left with child , A simple , comely , modest , youthful dame , Whose name was person_4 ; from Champaign she came.
Her neighbor person_5rew visits now would pay ; With what intention , needless ` tis to say : A master who but rarely spread his net , But , first or last , with full success he met ; person_5 cunning was the bird that ` scaped his snare ; Without surrendering a feather there.
QUITE raw was person_4 ; for his purpose fit ; Not overburdened with a store of wit ; Of this indeed she could not be accused , person_5 Cupid 's wiles by her were never used ; Poor lady , all with her was honest part , person_5 naught she knew of stratagem or art.
HER husband then away , and she alone , This neighbor came , and in a whining tone , person_0 her observed , when compliments were o ` er : -- I 'm all astonishment , and you deplore , person_0 find that neighbor person_3 's gone from hence , person_5 left your child 's completing in suspense , Which now you bear within , and much I fear , person_1 when ` tis born you 'll find it wants an ear.
Your looks sufficiently the fact proclaim , For many instances I 've known the same.
Good heav ` ns ! replied the lady in a fright ; What say you , pray ? -- the infant wo n't be right ! Shall I be mother to a one-eared child ? person_5 know you no relief that 's certain styled ? Oh yes , there is , rejoined the crafty knave , From such mishap I can the baby save ; Yet solemnly I vow , for none but you I 'd undertake the toilsome job to do.
The ills of others , if I may be plain , Except your husband 's , never give me pain ; But him I 'd serve for ever , while I 've breath ; person_0 do him good I 'd e ` en encounter death.
Now let us see , without more talk or fears , If I know how to forge the bantling ears.
Remember , cried the wife , to make them like.
Leave that to me , said he , I 'll justly strike.
Then he prepared for work ; the dame gave way ; Not difficult she proved : -- well pleased she lay ; Philosophy was never less required , person_5rew 's process much the fair admired , Who , to his work extreme attention paid ; 'Twas now a tendon ; then a fold he made , Or cartilage , of which he formed enough , person_5 all without complaining of the stuff.
person_0-morrow we will polish it , said he : Then in perfection soon the whole will be ; person_5 from repeating this so oft , you 'll get As perfect issue as was ever met.
I 'm much obliged to you , the wife replied , A friend is good in whom we may confide.
NEXT day , when tardy Time had marked the hour ; person_1rew hoped again to use his pow ` r , He was not plunged in sleep , but briskly flew , His purpose with the charmer to pursue.
Said he , all other things aside I 've laid , This ear to finish , and to lend you aid.
person_5 I , the dame replied , was on the eve , person_0 send and beg you not the job to leave ; Above stairs let us go : -- away they ran , person_5 quickly recommenced as they began.
The work so oft was smoothed , that person_4 showed Some scruples lest the ear he had bestowed Should do too much , and to the wily wight , She said , so little you the labor slight , ` Twere well if ears no more than two appear ; Of that , rejoined the other , never fear ; I 've guarded thoroughly against defects , Mistake like that shall ne'er your senses vex.
THE ear howe'er was still in hand the same , When from his journey home the husband came.
Saluted person_4 , who with anxious look , Exclaimed , -- your work how finely you forsook , person_5 , but for neighbor person_5rew 's kindness here , Our child would incomplete have been -- an ear , I could not let a thing remain like this , person_5rew would not be to friends remiss , But , worthy man , he left his thriving trade , person_5 for the babe a proper ear has made.
THE husband , not conceiving how his wife , Could be so weak and ignorant of life , The circumstances made her fully tell , Repeat them o ` er and on each action dwell.
Enraged at length , a pistol by the bed He seized and swore at once he 'd shoot her dead.
The belle with tears replied , howe'er she 'd swerved , Such cruel treatment never she deserved.
Her innocence , and simple , gentle way , At length appeared his frantick rage to lay.
What injury , continued she , is done ? The strictest scrutiny I would not shun ; Your goods and money , ev ` ry thing is right ; person_5rew told me , nothing he would slight ; person_1 you would find much more than you could want ; person_5 this I hope to me you 'll freely grant ; If falsehood I advance , my life I 'll lose ; Your equity , I trust , will me excuse.
A LITTLE cooled , then person_3 thus replied , We 'll say no more ; you have been drawn aside ; What passed you fancied acting for the best , person_5 I 'll consent to put the thing at rest ; person_0 nothing good such altercations tend ; I 've but a word : to that attention lend ; Contrive to-morrow that I here entrap This fellow who has caused your sad mishap ; You 'll utter not a word of what I 've said ; Be secret or at once I 'll strike you dead.
Adroitly you must act : for instance say ; I 'm on a second journey gone away ; A message or a letter to him send , Soliciting that he 'll on you attend , person_1 something you have got to let him know ; -- person_0 come , no doubt , the rascal wo n't be slow ; Amuse him then with converse most absurd , But of the EAR remember , -- not a word ; person_1 's finished now , and nothing can require ; You 'll carefully perform what I desire.
Poor innocent ! the point she nicely hit ; Fear oft gives simpletons a sort of wit.
THE arch gallant arrived ; the husband came Ascended to the room where sat his dame ; Much noise he made , his coming to announce ; The lover , terrified , began to bounce ; Now here , now there , no shelter could he meet ; Between the bed and wall he put his feet , person_5 lay concealed , while person_3 loudly knocked ; Fair person_4 readily the door unlocked , person_5 , pointing with her hand , informed the spouse , Where he might easily his rival rouse.
THE husband ev ` ry way was armed so well , He four such men as person_5rew could repel ; In quest of succor howsoe'er he went : person_0 kill him surely person_3 never meant , But only take an ear , or what the Turks , Those savage beasts , cut off from Nature 's works ; Which doubtless must be infinitely worse Infernal practice and continual curse.
'Twas this he whispered should be person_5rew 's doom , When with his easy wife he left the room ; She nothing durst reply : the door he shut , person_5 our gallant ` gan presently to strut , Around and round , believing all was right , person_5 unacquainted with his plight.
THE latter having well the project weighed , Now changed his plan , and other schemes surveyed ; Proposed within himself revenge to take , With less parade : -- less noise it then would make , person_5 better fruit the action would produce , Than if he were apparently profuse.
Said he to person_4 , go and seek his wife ; person_0 her relate the whole that caused our strife ; Minutely all from first to last detail ; person_5 then the better on her to prevail , person_0 hasten here , you 'll hint that you have fears , person_1rew risks the loss of -- more than ears , For I have punishment severe in view , Which greatly she must wish I should not do ; But if an ear-maker , like this , is caught , The worst of chastisement is always sought ; Such horrid things as scarcely can be said : They make the hair to stand upon the head ; person_1 he 's upon the point of suff ` ring straight , person_5 only for her presence things await ; person_1 though she can not all proceedings stay , Perhaps she may some portion take away.
Go , bring her instantly , haste quickly , run ; person_5 , if she comes , I 'll pardon what 's been done.
WITH joy to person_5rew 's house fair person_4 went ; The wife to follow her appeared content ; Quite out of breath , alone she ran up stairs , person_5 , not perceiving him who shared her cares ; Believed he was imprisoned in a room ; person_5 while with fear she trembled for his doom ; The master -LRB- having laid aside his arms -RRB- Now came to compliment the lady 's charms ; He gave the belle a chair , who looked most nice : -- Said he , ingratitude 's the worst of vice ; person_0 me your husband has been wondrous kind ; So many services has done I find , person_1 , ere you leave this house , I 'd wish to make A little return , and this you will partake.
When I was absent from my loving dear , Obligingly he made her babe an ear.
The compliment of course I must admire ; Retaliation is what I desire , person_5 I 've a thought : -- your children all have got The nose a little short , which is a blot ; A fault within the mould no doubt 's the cause , Which I can mend , and any other flaws.
The business now let 's execute I pray , On which the dame he took without delay , person_5 placed her near where person_5rew hid his head , Then ` gan to operate as he was led.
THE lady patiently his process bore , person_5 blessed her stars that person_5rew 's risk was o ` er person_1 she had thus the dire return received , person_5 saved the man for whom her bosom grieved.
So much emotion person_3 seemed to feel , No grace he gave , but all performed with zeal ; Retaliated ev ` ry way so well , He measure gave for measure : -- ell for ell.
How true the adage , that revenge is sweet ! The plan he followed clearly was discrete ; For since he wished his honor to repair : -- Of any better way I 'm not aware.
THE whole without a murmur person_5rew viewed , person_5 thanked kind Heav ` n that nothing worse ensued ; One ear most readily he would have lost , Could he be certain that would pay the cost.
He thought ` twould lucky be , could he get out , For all considered , better ` twere no doubt , Howe'er ridiculous the thing appears , person_0 have a pair of horns than lose his ears"
THE change of food enjoyment is to man ; person_3 this , t ` include the woman is my plan.
I can not guess why Rome will not allow Exchange in wedlock , and its leave avow ; Not ev ` ry time such wishes might arise , person_2 , once in life at least , ` twere not unwise ; Perhaps one day we may the boon obtain ; Amen , I say : my sentiments are plain ; The privilege in France may yet arrive There trucking pleases , and exchanges thrive ; The people love variety , we find ; And such by heav ` n was ere for them designed.
ONCE there dwelled , near Rouen , -LRB- sapient clime -RRB- Two villagers , whose wives were in their prime , And rather pleasing in their shape and mien , For those in whom refinement 's scarcely seen.
Each looker-on conceives , LOVE needs not greet Such humble wights , as he would prelates treat.
IT happened , howsoe'er , both weary grown , Of halves that they so long had called their own ; One holyday , with them there chanced to drink The village lawyer -LRB- bred in Satan 's sink -RRB- ; person_0 him , said one of these , with jeering air , Good mister Oudinet , a strange affair Is in my head : you 've doubtless often made Variety of contracts ; ` tis your trade : Now , can not you contrive , by one of these , That men should barter wives , like goods , at ease ? Our pastor oft his benefice has changed ; Is trucking wives less easily arranged ? It can not be , for well I recollect , That Parson Gregory -LRB- whom none suspect -RRB- Would always say , or much my mem ` ry fails , My flock 's my wife : love equally prevails ; He changed ; let us , good neighbor do the same ; With all my heart , said t ` other , that 's my aim ; person_2 well thou know ` st that mine 's the fairest face , And , Mister Oudinet , since that 's the case , Should he not add , at least , his mule to boot ? My mule ? rejoined the first , that will not suit ; person_3 this world ev ` ry thing has got its price : Mine I will change for thine and that 's concise.
Wives are not viewed so near ; naught will I add ; Why , neighbor person_1 , dost thou think me mad , person_0 give my mule to boot ? -- of mules the king ; Not e ` en an ass I 'd to the bargain bring ; Change wife for wife , the barter will be fair ; Then each will act with t ` other on the square.
THE village lawyer now the friends addressed : Said he , person_4 is confessed person_0 have superior charms to those of Jane ; person_2 still , if I may venture to be plain , Not always is the best what meets the eye , For many beauties in concealment lie , Which I prefer ; and these are hid with care ; Deceptions , too , are practiced by the FAIR ; Howe'er , we wish the whole to be disclosed , person_0o much , ` tis said , they must not be exposed.
NOW , neighbors , let us fair arrangement make : A pig in poke you 'd neither give nor take ; Confront these halves in nature 's birth-day suit ; person_0 neither , then , will you deceit impute.
The project was most thoroughly approved ; Like inclination both the husbands moved.
ANTOINETTA , said the second spouse , Has neither ill nor scratch her fears to rouse.
Jane , cried the first , is ev ` ry way complete ; No freckles on the skin : as balm she 's sweet : person_4 is , her spouse replied , Ambrosia ev ` ry way : no fault to hide.
SAID t ` other : -- Do n't so confident appear ; Thou know ` st not Jane : her ways would marble cheer ; And there 's a play : -- thou understand ` st no doubt ? person_0 this rejoined the second village lout , One diff ` rence only have my wife and I : Which plays the prettiest wiles is what we try ; Thou ` lt very soon of these know how to think ; Here 's to thee , neighbor ; Mister Oud ` net , drink ; Come , toast person_4 ; likewise Jane ; The mule was granted , and the bargain plain : Our village lawyer promised to prepare , At once , the writings , which would all declare.
This Oudinet a good apostle proved Well paid for parchment , or he never moved : By whom was payment made ? -- by both the dames ; On neither husband showed he any claims.
THE village clowns some little time supposed That all was secret : not a hint disclosed ; The parson of it , howsoe'er , obtained Some intimation , and his off ` rings gained.
I was not present , fully I admit ; person_2 rarely clergymen their dues will quit.
The very clerk would not remit his fee : -- All those who serve the church in this agree.
THE permutation could not well be made , person_2 scandal would such practices upbraid ; person_3 country villages each step is seen ; Thus , round the whisper went of what had been , And placed at length the thorn where all was ease ; The pow ` rs divine alone it could displease.
'Twas pleasant them together to behold ; The wives , in emulation , were not cold ; person_3 easy talk they 'd to each other say : How pleasing to exchange from day to day ! What think you , neighbor , if , to try our luck , For once we 've something new , and valets truck ? This last , if made , the secret had respect ; The other had at first a good effect.
FOR one good month the whole proceeded well ; person_2 , at the end , disgust dispersed the spell ; And neighbor person_1 , as we might suppose , Began dissatisfaction to disclose ; Lamented much person_4 's stop ; No doubt he was a loser by the swop ; Yet neighbor Giles expressed extreme regret , That t ` other from him ought to boot should get : Howe'er , he would retrucking not consent , So much he otherwise appeared content.
IT happened on a day , as person_1 strayed Within a wood , he saw , beneath a shade , And near the stream , asleep , and quite alone , person_4 , whom he wished his own.
He near her drew , and waked her with surprise ; The change ne'er struck her when she ope 'd her eyes ; The gay gallant advantage quickly took , And , what he wished , soon placed within his hook.
` Tis said , he found her better than at first ; Why so ? you ask : was she then at the worst ? A curious question , truly , you 've designed ; person_3 Cupid 's am ` rous code of laws you 'll find -- Bread got by stealth , and eat where none can spy , Is better far than what you bake or buy ; For proof of this , ask those most learn 'd in love Truth we prefer , all other things above ; Yet Hymen , and the god of soft desire , How much soe'er their union we admire , Are not designed together bread to bake ; person_3 proof , the sleeping scene for instance take.
Good cheer was there : each dish was served with taste ; The god of love , who often cooks in haste , Most nicely seasoned things to relish well ; person_3 this he 's thought old Hymen to excel.
ANTOINETTA , to his clasp restored , Our neighbor person_1 , who his wife adored , Quite raw , howe'er , in this , exclaimed apart Friend Giles has surely got some secret art , For now my rib displays superior charms , person_0 what she had , before she left my arms.
Let 's take her back , and play the Norman trick Deny the whole , and by our priv ` lege stick.
IMMEDIATELY he ev ` ry effort tried , person_0 get the bargain fully set aside.
Giles , much distressed , exerted all his might , person_0 keep his prize , and prove his conduct right.
The cause was carried to the bishop 's court ; Much noise it made , according to report.
At length the parliament would hear the claim , And judge a case of such peculiar fame.
THE village lawyer , Oudinet , was brought ; From him , who drew the contract , truth was sought ; There rests the cause , for ` tis of recent date ; While undecided , more we can not state.
HOW silly neighbor person_1 must appear ! He went against his int ` rest now ` tis clear ; For , when superior pleasure he was shown , The fascinating fair was not his own.
Good sense would whisper then , ` twere full as well , person_0 let remain with Giles the beauteous belle ; Save now and then , within the leafy shade , Where oft person_4 visits made , And warbled to the shrubs and trees around ; There he might easily the nymph have found , person_2 , if with ease it could not be obtained , Still greater pleasure he would then have gained.
GO preach me this to silly country louts ; These , howsoe'er , had managed well their bouts , It must not be denied , and all was nice ; person_0 do the like perhaps ` twill some entice.
I much regret my lot was not the same , Though doubtless many will my wishes blame"
`` It was in a little provincial town ,"
the Moon said ; `` it certainly happened last year , but that has nothing to do with the matter.
I saw it quite plainly.
To-day I read about it in the papers , but there it was not half so clearly expressed.
In the taproom of the little inn sat the bear leader , eating his supper ; the bear was tied up outside , behind the wood pile -- poor person_0 , who did nobody any harm , though he looked grim enough.
Up in the garret three little children were playing by the light of my beams ; the eldest was perhaps six years old , the youngest certainly not more than two.
` Tramp , tramp ' -- somebody was coming upstairs : who might it be ? The door was thrust open -- it was person_0 , the great , shaggy person_0 ! He had got tired of waiting down in the courtyard , and had found his way to the stairs.
I saw it all ,"
said the Moon.
`` The children were very much frightened at first at the great shaggy animal ; each of them crept into a corner , but he found them all out , and smelt at them , but did them no harm.
` This must be a great dog , ' they said , and began to stroke him.
He lay down upon the ground , the youngest boy clambered on his back , and bending down a little head of golden curls , played at hiding in the beast 's shaggy skin.
Presently the eldest boy took his drum , and beat upon it till it rattled again ; the bear rose upon his hind legs , and began to dance.
It was a charming sight to behold.
Each boy now took his gun , and the bear was obliged to have one too , and he held it up quite properly.
Here was a capital playmate they had found ; and they began marching -- one , two ; one , two.
`` Suddenly some one came to the door , which opened , and the mother of the children appeared.
You should have seen her in her dumb terror , with her face as white as chalk , her mouth half open , and her eyes fixed in a horrified stare.
But the youngest boy nodded to her in great glee , and called out in his infantile prattle , ` We 're playing at soldiers.
' And then the bear leader came running up"
`` I knew an old maid ,"
said the Moon.
`` Every winter she wore a wrapper of yellow satin , and it always remained new , and was the only fashion she followed.
In summer she always wore the same straw hat , and I verily believe the very same grey-blue dress.
`` She never went out , except across the street to an old female friend ; and in later years she did not even take this walk , for the old friend was dead.
In her solitude my old maid was always busy at the window , which was adorned in summer with pretty flowers , and in winter with cress , grown upon felt.
During the last months I saw her no more at the window , but she was still alive.
I knew that , for I had not yet seen her begin the ` long journey , ' of which she often spoke with her friend.
` Yes , yes , ' she was in the habit of saying , ` when I come to die , I shall take a longer journey than I have made my whole life long.
Our family vault is six miles from here.
I shall be carried there , and shall sleep there among my family and relatives.
' Last night a van stopped at the house.
A coffin was carried out , and then I knew that she was dead.
They placed straw round the coffin , and the van drove away.
There slept the quiet old lady , who had not gone out of her house once for the last year.
The van rolled out through the town-gate as briskly as if it were going for a pleasant excursion.
On the high-road the pace was quicker yet.
The coachman looked nervously round every now and then -- I fancy he half expected to see her sitting on the coffin , in her yellow satin wrapper.
And because he was startled , he foolishly lashed his horses , while he held the reins so tightly that the poor beasts were in a foam : they were young and fiery.
A hare jumped across the road and startled them , and they fairly ran away.
The old sober maiden , who had for years and years moved quietly round and round in a dull circle , was now , in death , rattled over stock and stone on the public highway.
The coffin in its covering of straw tumbled out of the van , and was left on the high-road , while horses , coachman , and carriage flew past in wild career.
The lark rose up carolling from the field , twittering her morning lay over the coffin , and presently perched upon it , picking with her beak at the straw covering , as though she would tear it up.
The lark rose up again , singing gaily , and I withdrew behind the red morning clouds"
Long , long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki.
Now he fell in love with a beautiful lady and married her.
Not long after this , through the malice of some of his friends , he fell into disgrace at Court and was dismissed.
This misfortune so preyed upon his mind that he did not long survive his dismissal -- he died , leaving behind him his beautiful young wife to face the world alone.
Fearing her husband 's enemies , she fled to the Ashigara Mountains as soon as her husband was dead , and there in the lonely forests where no one ever came except woodcutters , a little boy was born to her.
She called him person_0 or the Golden Boy.
Now the remarkable thing about this child was his great strength , and as he grew older he grew stronger and stronger , so that by the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters.
Then his mother gave him a large ax , and he used to go out in the forest and help the woodcutters , who called him `` Wonder-child ,"
and his mother the `` Old Nurse of the Mountains ,"
for they did not know her high rank.
Another favorite pastime of person_0 's was to smash up rocks and stones.
You can imagine how strong he was ! Quite unlike other boys , person_0 , grew up all alone in the mountain wilds , and as he had no companions he made friends with all the animals and learned to understand them and to speak their strange talk.
By degrees they all grew quite tame and looked upon person_0 as their master , and he used them as his servants and messengers.
But his special retainers were the bear , the deer , the monkey and the hare.
The bear often brought her cubs for person_0 to romp with , and when she came to take them home person_0 would get on her back and have a ride to her cave.
He was very fond of the deer too , and would often put his arms round the creature 's neck to show that its long horns did not frighten him.
Great was the fun they all had together.
One day , as usual , person_0 went up into the mountains , followed by the bear , the deer , the monkey , and the hare.
After walking for some time up hill and down dale and over rough roads , they suddenly came out upon a wide and grassy plain covered with pretty wild flowers.
Here , indeed , was a nice place where they could all have a good romp together.
The deer rubbed his horns against a tree for pleasure , the monkey scratched his back , the hare smoothed his long ears , and the bear gave a grunt of satisfaction.
person_0 said , `` Here is a place for a good game.
What do you all say to a wrestling match ?"
The bear being the biggest and the oldest , answered for the others : `` That will be great fun ,"
said she.
`` I am the strongest animal , so I will make the platform for the wrestlers ;"
and she set to work with a will to dig up the earth and to pat it into shape.
`` All right ,"
said person_0 , `` I will look on while you all wrestle with each other.
I shall give a prize to the one who wins in each round"
`` What fun ! we shall all try to get the prize ,"
said the bear.
The deer , the monkey and the hare set to work to help the bear raise the platform on which they were all to wrestle.
When this was finished , person_0 cried out : `` Now begin ! the monkey and the hare shall open the sports and the deer shall be umpire.
Now , Mr.
Deer , you are to be umpire !"
`` He , he !"
answered the deer.
`` I will be umpire.
Now , Mr.
Monkey and Mr.
Hare , if you are both ready , please walk out and take your places on the platform"
Then the monkey and the hare both hopped out , quickly and nimbly , to the wrestling platform.
The deer , as umpire , stood between the two and called out : `` Red-back ! Red-back !"
-LRB- this to the monkey , who has a red back in Japan -RRB-.
`` Are you ready ?"
Then he turned to the hare : `` Long-ears ! Long-ears ! are you ready ?"
Both the little wrestlers faced each other while the deer raised a leaf on high as signal.
When he dropped the leaf the monkey and the hare rushed upon each other , crying `` Yoisho , yoisho !"
While the monkey and the hare wrestled , the deer called out encouragingly or shouted warnings to each of them as the hare or the monkey pushed each other near the edge of the platform and were in danger of falling over.
`` Red-back ! Red-back ! stand your ground !"
called out the deer.
`` Long-ears ! Long-ears ! be strong , be strong -- do n't let the monkey beat you !"
grunted the bear.
So the monkey and the hare , encouraged by their friends , tried their very hardest to beat each other.
The hare at last gained on the monkey.
The monkey seemed to trip up , and the hare giving him a good push sent him flying off the platform with a bound.
The poor monkey sat up rubbing his back , and his face was very long as he screamed angrily.
`` Oh , oh ! how my back hurts -- my back hurts me !"
Seeing the monkey in this plight on the ground , the deer holding his leaf on high said : `` This round is finished -- the hare has won"
person_0 then opened his luncheon box and taking out a rice-dumpling , gave it to the hare saying : `` Here is your prize , and you have earned , it well !"
Now the monkey got up looking very cross , and as they say in Japan `` his stomach stood up ,"
for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten.
So he said to person_0 and the others who were standing by : `` I have not been fairly beaten.
My foot slipped and I tumbled.
Please give me another chance and let the hare wrestle with me for another round"
Then person_0 consenting , the hare and the monkey began to wrestle again.
Now , as every one knows , the monkey is a cunning animal by nature , and he made up his mind to get the best of the hare this time if it were possible.
To do this , he thought that the best and surest way would be to get hold of the hare 's long ear.
This he soon managed to do.
The hare was quite thrown off his guard by the pain of having his long ear pulled so hard , and the monkey seizing his opportunity at last , caught hold of one of the hare 's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais.
The monkey was now the victor and received , a rice-dumpling from person_0 , which pleased him so much that he quite forgot his sore back.
The deer now came up and asked the hare if he felt ready for another round , and if so whether be would try a round with him , and the hare consenting , they both stood up to wrestle.
The bear came forward as umpire.
The deer with long horns and the hare with long ears , it must have been an amusing sight to those who watched this queer match.
Suddenly the deer went down on one of his knees , and the bear with the leaf on high declared him beaten.
In this way , sometimes the one , sometimes the other , conquering , the little party amused themselves till they were tired.
At last person_0 got up and said : `` This is enough for to-day.
What a nice place we have found for wrestling ; let us come again to-morrow.
Now , we will all go home.
Come along !"
So saying , person_0 led the way while the animals followed.
After walking some little distance they came out on the banks of a river flowing through a valley.
person_0 and his four furry friends stood and looked about for some means of crossing.
Bridge there was none.
The river rushed `` don , don"
on its way.
All the animals looked serious , wondering how they could cross the stream and get home that evening.
person_0 , however , said : `` Wait a moment.
I will make a good bridge for you all in a few minutes"
The bear , the deer , the monkey and the hare looked at him to see what he would do now.
person_0 went from one tree to another that grew along the river bank.
At last he stopped in front of a very large tree that was growing at the water 's edge.
He took hold of the trunk and pulled it with all his might , once , twice , thrice ! At the third pull , so great was person_0 's strength that the roots gave way , and `` meri , meri"
-LRB- crash , crash -RRB- , over fell the tree , forming an excellent bridge across the stream.
`` There ,"
said person_0 , `` what do you think of my bridge ? It is quite safe , so follow me ,"
and he stepped across first.
The four animals followed.
Never had they seen any one so strong before , and they all exclaimed : `` How strong he is ! how strong he is !"
While all this was going on by the river a woodcutter , who happened to be standing on a rock overlooking the stream , had seen all that passed beneath him.
He watched with great surprise person_0 and his animal companions.
He rubbed his eyes to be sure that he was not dreaming when he saw this boy pull over a tree by the roots and throw it across the stream to form a bridge.
The woodcutter , for such he seemed to be by his dress , marveled at all he saw , and said to himself : `` This is no ordinary child.
Whose son can he be ? I will find out before this day is done"
He hastened after the strange party and crossed the bridge behind them.
person_0 knew nothing of all this , and little guessed that he was being followed.
On reaching the other side of the river he and the animals separated , they to their lairs in the woods and he to his mother , who was waiting for him.
As soon as he entered the cottage , which stood like a matchbox in the heart of the pine-woods , he went to greet his mother , saying : `` Okkasan -LRB- mother -RRB- , here I am !"
`` O , Kimbo !"
said his mother with a bright smile , glad to see her boy home safe after the long day.
`` How late you are to-day.
I feared that something had happened to you.
Where have you been all the time ?"
`` I took my four friends , the bear , the deer , the monkey , and the hare , up into the hills , and there I made them try a wrestling match , to see which was the strongest.
We all enjoyed the sport , and are going to the same place to-morrow to have another match"
`` Now tell me who is the strongest of all ?"
asked his mother , pretending not to know.
`` Oh , mother ,"
said person_0 , `` do n't you know that I am the strongest ? There was no need for me to wrestle with any of them"
`` But next to you then , who is the strongest ?"
`` The bear comes next to me in strength ,"
answered person_0.
`` And after the bear ?"
asked his mother again.
`` Next to the bear it is not easy to say which is the strongest , for the deer , the monkey , and the hare all seem to be as strong as each other ,"
said person_0.
Suddenly person_0 and his mother were startled by a voice from outside.
`` Listen to me , little boy ! Next time you go , take this old man with you to the wrestling match.
He would like to join the sport too !"
It was the old woodcutter who had followed person_0 from the river.
He slipped off his clogs and entered the cottage.
Yama-uba and her son were both taken by surprise.
They looked at the intruder wonderingly and saw that he was some one they had never seen before.
`` Who are you ?"
they both exclaimed.
Then the woodcutter laughed and said : `` It does not matter who I am yet , but let us see who has the strongest arm -- this boy or myself ?"
Then person_0 , who had lived all his life in the forest , answered the old man without any ceremony , saying : `` We will have a try if you wish it , but you must not be angry whoever is beaten"
Then person_0 and the woodcutter both put out their right arms and grasped each other 's hands.
For a long time person_0 and the old man wrestled together in this way , each trying to bend the other 's arm , but the old man was very strong , and the strange pair were evenly matched.
At last the old man desisted , declaring it a drawn game.
`` You are , indeed , a very strong child.
There are few men who can boast of the strength of my right arm !"
said the woodcutter.
`` I saw you first on the hanks of the river a few hours ago , when you pulled up that large tree to make a bridge across the torrent.
Hardly able to believe what I saw I followed you home.
Your strength of arm , which I have just tried , proves what I saw this afternoon.
When you are full-grown you will surely be the strongest man in all Japan.
It is a pity that you are hidden away in these wild mountains"
Then he turned to person_0 's mother : `` And you , mother , have you no thought of taking your child to the Capital , and of teaching him to carry a sword as befits a samurai -LRB- a Japanese knight -RRB- ?"
`` You are very kind to take so much interest in my son"
replied the mother ; `` but he is as you see , wild and uneducated , and I fear it would be very difficult to do as you say.
Because of his great strength as an infant I hid him away in this unknown part of the country , for he hurt every one that came near him.
I have often wished that I could , one day , see my boy a knight wearing two swords , but as we have no influential friend to introduce us at the Capital , I fear my hope will never come true"
`` You need not trouble yourself about that.
To tell you the truth I am no woodcutter ! I am one of the great generals of Japan.
My name is Sadamitsu , and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no - Raiko.
He ordered me to go round the country and look for boys who give promise of remarkable strength , so that they may be trained as soldiers for his army.
I thought that I could best do this by assuming the disguise of a woodcutter.
By good fortune , I have thus unexpectedly come across your son.
Now if you really wish him to be a SAMURAI -LRB- a knight -RRB- , I will take him and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service.
What do you say to this ?"
As the kind general gradually unfolded his plan the mother 's heart was filled with a great joy.
She saw that here was a wonderful chance of the one wish of her life being fulfilled -- that of seeing person_0 a SAMURAI before she died.
Bowing her head to the ground , she replied : `` I will then intrust my son to you if you really mean what you say"
person_0 had all this time been sitting by his mother 's side listening to what they said.
When his mother finished speaking , he exclaimed : `` Oh , joy ! joy ! I am to go with the general and one day I shall be a"
Long , long ago.
when all the animals could talk , there lived in the province of person_0 in Japan , a little white hare.
His home was on the island of Oki , and just across the sea was the mainland of person_0.
Now the hare wanted very much to cross over to person_0.
Day after day he would go out and sit on the shore and look longingly over the water in the direction of person_0.
and day after day he hoped to find some way of getting across.
One day as usual , the hare was standing on the beach , looking towards the mainland across the water , when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island.
`` This is very lucky !"
thought the hare.
`` Now I shall be able to get my wish.
I will ask the crocodile to carry me across the sea !"
But he was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what wanted.
So he thought instead of asking a favor he would try to get what he wanted by a trick.
So with a loud voice he called to the crocodile , and said : `` Oh , Mr.
Crocodile , is n't it a lovely day ?"
The crocodile , who had come out all by itself that day to enjoy the bright sunshine , was just beginning to feel a bit lonely when the hare 's cheerful greeting broke the silence.
The crocodile swam nearer the shore , very pleased to hear some one speak.
`` I wonder who it was that spoke to me just now ! Was it you , Mr.
Hare ? You must be very lonely all by yourself !"
`` Oh , no , I am not at all lonely ,"
said the hare , `` but as it was such a fine day I came out here to enjoy myself.
Wo n't you stop and play with me a little while ?"
The crocodile came out of the sea and sat on the shore , and the two played together for some time.
Then the hare said : `` Mr.
Crocodile , you live in the sea and I live on this island , and we do not often meet , so I know very little about you.
Tell me , do you think the number of your company is greater than mine ?"
`` Of course , there are more crocodiles than hares ,"
answered the crocodile.
`` Can you not see that for yourself ? You live on this small island , while I live in the sea , which spreads through all parts of the world , so if I call together all the crocodiles who dwell in the sea you hares will be as nothing compared to us !"
The crocodile was very conceited.
The hare , who meant to play a trick on the crocodile , said : `` Do you think it possible for you to call up enough crocodiles to form a line from this island across the sea to person_0 ?"
The crocodile thought for a moment and then answered : `` Of course , it is possible"
`` Then do try ,"
said the artful hare , `` and I will count the number from here !"
The crocodile , who was very simple-minded , and who had n't the least idea that the hare intended to play a trick on him , agreed to do what the hare asked , and said : `` Wait a little while I go back into the sea and call my company together !"
The crocodile plunged into the sea and was gone for some time.
The hare , meanwhile , waited patiently on the shore.
At last the crocodile appeared , bringing with him a large number of other crocodiles.
`` Look , Mr.
Hare !"
said the crocodile , `` it is nothing for my friends to form a line between here and person_0.
There are enough crocodiles to stretch from here even as far as China or India.
Did you ever see so many crocodiles ?"
Then the whole company of crocodiles arranged themselves in the water so as to form a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland of person_0.
When the hare saw the bridge of crocodiles , he said : `` How splendid ! I did not believe this was possible.
Now let me count you all ! To do this , however , with your permission , I must walk over on your backs to the other side , so please be so good as not to move , or else I shall fall into the sea and be drowned !"
So the hare hopped off the island on to the strange bridge of crocodiles , counting as he jumped from one crocodile 's back to the other : `` Please keep quite still , or I shall not be able to count.
One , two , three , four , five , six.
seven , eight , nine --"
Thus the cunning hare walked right across to the mainland of person_0.
Not content with getting his wish , he began to jeer at the crocodiles instead of thanking them , and said , as he leapt off the last one 's back : `` Oh ! you stupid crocodiles , now I have done with you !"
And he was just about to run away as fast as he could.
But he did not escape so easily , for so soon as the crocodiles understood that this was a trick played upon them by the hare so as to enable him to cross the sea , and that the hare was now laughing at them for their stupidity , they became furiously angry and made up their minds to take revenge.
So some of them ran after the hare and caught him.
Then they all surrounded the poop little animal and pulled out all his fur.
He cried out loudly and entreated them to spare him , but with each tuft of fur they pulled out they said : `` Serve you right !"
When the crocodiles had pulled out the last bit of fur , they threw the poor hare on the beach , and all swam away laughing at what they had done.
The hare was now in a pitiful plight , all his beautiful white fur had been pulled out , and his bare little body was quivering with pain and bleeding all over.
He could hardly move , and all he could do was to lie on the beach quite helpless and weep over the misfortune that had befallen him.
Notwithstanding that it was his own fault that had brought all this misery and suffering upon the white hare of person_0 , any one seeing the poor little creature could not help feeling sorry for him in his sad condition , for the crocodiles had been very cruel in their revenge.
Just at this time a number of men , who looked like King 's sons , happened to pass by , and seeing the hare lying on the beach crying , stopped and asked what was the matter.
The hare lifted up his head from between his paws , and answered them , saying : `` I had a fight with some crocodiles , but I was beaten , and they pulled out all my fur and left me to suffer here -- that is why I am crying"
Now one of these young men had a bad and spiteful disposition.
But he feigned kindness , and said to the hare : `` I feel very sorry for you.
If you will only try it , I know of a remedy which will cure your sore body.
Go and bathe yourself in the sea , and then come and sit in the wind.
This will make your fur grow again , and you will be just as you were before"
Then all the young men passed on.
The hare was very pleased , thinking that he had found a cure.
He went and bathed in the sea and then came out and sat where the wind could blow upon him.
But as the wind blew and dried him , his skin became drawn and hardened , and the salt increased the pain so much that he rolled on the sand in his agony and cried aloud.
Just then another King 's son passed by , carrying a great bag on his back.
He saw the hare , and stopped and asked why he was crying so loudly.
But the poor hare , remembering that he had been deceived by one very like the man who now spoke to him , did not answer , but continued to cry.
But this man had a kind heart , and looked at the hare very pityingly , and said : `` You poor thing ! I see that your fur is all pulled out and that your skin is quite bare.
Who can have treated you so cruelly ?"
When the hare heard these kind words he felt very grateful to the man , and encouraged by his gentle manner the hare told him all that had befallen him.
The little animal hid nothing from his friend , but told him frankly how he had played a trick on the crocodiles and how he had come across the bridge they had made , thinking that he wished to count their number : how he had jeered at them for their stupidity , and then how the crocodiles had revenged themselves on him.
Then he went on to say how he had been deceived by a party of men who looked very like his kind friend : and the hare ended his long tale of woe by begging the man to give him some medicine that would cure him and make his fur grow again.
When the hare had finished his story , the man was full of pity towards him , and said : `` I am very sorry for all you have suffered , but remember , it was only the consequence of the deceit you practiced on the crocodiles"
`` I know ,"
answered the sorrowful hare , `` but I have repented and made up my mind never to use deceit again , so I beg you to show me how I may cure my sore body and make the fur grow again"
`` Then I will tell you of a good remedy ,"
said the man.
`` First go and bathe well in that pond over there and try to wash all the salt from your body.
Then pick some of those kaba flowers that are growing near the edge of the water , spread them on the ground and roll yourself on them.
If you do this the pollen will cause your fur to grow again , and you will be quite well in a little while"
The hare was very glad to be told what to do , so kindly.
He crawled to the pond pointed out to him , bathed well in it , and then picked the kaba flowers growing near the water , and rolled himself on them.
To his amazement , even while he was doing this , he saw his nice white fur growing again , the pain ceased , and he felt just as he had done before all his misfortunes.
The hare was overjoyed at his quick recovery , and went hopping joyfully towards the young man who had so helped him , and kneeling down at his feet , said : `` I can not express my thanks for all you have done for me ! It is my earnest wish to do something for you in return.
Please tell me who you are ?"
`` I am no King 's son as you think me.
I am a fairy , and my name is Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto ,"
answered the man , `` and those beings who passed here before me are my brothers.
They have heard of a beautiful Princess called Yakami who lives in this province of person_0 , and they are on their way to find her and to ask her to marry one of them.
But on this expedition I am only an attendant , so I am walking behind them with this great big bag on my back"
The hare humbled himself before this great fairy Okuni-nushi-no - Mikoto , whom many in that part of the land worshiped as a god.
`` Oh , I did not know that you were Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto.
How kind you have been to me ! It is impossible to believe that that unkind fellow who sent me to bathe in the sea is one of your brothers.
I am quite sure that the Princess , whom your brothers have gone to seek , will refuse to be the bride of any of them , and will prefer you for your goodness of heart.
I am quite sure that you will win her heart without intending to do so , and she will ask to be your bride"
Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto took no notice of what the hare said , but bidding the little animal goodby , went on his way quickly and soon overtook his brothers.
He found them just entering the Princess 's gate.
Just as the hare had said , the Princess could not be persuaded to become the bride of any of the brothers , but when she looked at the kind brother 's face she went straight up to him and said : `` To you I give myself ,"
and so they were married.
This is the end of the story.
Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto is worshiped by the people in some parts of Japan , as a god , and the hare has become famous as `` The White Hare of person_0"
But what became of the crocodiles nobody knows"
There was once on a time a person_0 who had a wife with golden hair , and she was so beautiful that her equal was not to be found on earth.
It came to pass that she lay ill , and as she felt that she must soon die , she called the person_0 and said , `` If thou wishest to marry again after my death , take no one who is not quite as beautiful as I am , and who has not just such golden hair as I have : this thou must promise me"
And after the person_0 had promised her this she closed her eyes and died.
For a long time the person_0 could not be comforted , and had no thought of taking another wife.
At length his councillors said , `` There is no help for it , the person_0 must marry again , that we may have a Queen"
And now messengers were sent about far and wide , to seek a bride who equalled the late Queen in beauty.
In the whole world , however , none was to be found , and even if one had been found , still there would have been no one who had such golden hair.
So the messengers came home as they went.
Now the person_0 had a daughter , who was just as beautiful as her dead mother , and had the same golden hair.
When she was grown up the person_0 looked at her one day , and saw that in every respect she was like his late wife , and suddenly felt a violent love for her.
Then he spake to his councillors , `` I will marry my daughter , for she is the counterpart of my late wife , otherwise I can find no bride who resembles her"
When the councillors heard that , they were shocked , and said , `` God has forbidden a father to marry his daughter , no good can come from such a crime , and the kingdom will be involved in the ruin"
The daughter was still more shocked when she became aware of her father 's resolution , but hoped to turn him from his design.
Then she said to him , `` Before I fulfil your wish , I must have three dresses , one as golden as the sun , one as silvery as the moon , and one as bright as the stars ; besides this , I wish for a mantle of a thousand different kinds of fur and hair joined together , and one of every kind of animal in your kingdom must give a piece of his skin for it"
But she thought , `` To get that will be quite impossible , and thus I shall divert my father from his wicked intentions"
The person_0 , however , did not give it up , and the cleverest maidens in his kingdom had to weave the three dresses , one as golden as the sun , one as silvery as the moon , and one as bright as the stars , and his huntsmen had to catch one of every kind of animal in the whole of his kingdom , and take from it a piece of its skin , and out of these was made a mantle of a thousand different kinds of fur.
At length , when all was ready , the person_0 caused the mantle to be brought , spread it out before her , and said , `` The wedding shall be to-morrow"
When , therefore , the person_0 's daughter saw that there was no longer any hope of turning her father 's heart , she resolved to run away from him.
In the night whilst every one was asleep , she got up , and took three different things from her treasures , a golden ring , a golden spinning-wheel , and a golden reel.
The three dresses of the sun , moon , and stars she put into a nutshell , put on her mantle of all kinds of fur , and blackened her face and hands with soot.
Then she commended herself to God , and went away , and walked the whole night until she reached a great forest.
And as she was tired , she got into a hollow tree , and fell asleep.
The sun rose , and she slept on , and she was still sleeping when it was full day.
Then it so happened that the person_0 to whom this forest belonged , was hunting in it.
When his dogs came to the tree , they sniffed , and ran barking round about it.
The person_0 said to the huntsmen , `` Just see what kind of wild beast has hidden itself in there"
The huntsmen obeyed his order , and when they came back they said , `` A wondrous beast is lying in the hollow tree ; we have never before seen one like it.
Its skin is fur of a thousand different kinds , but it is lying asleep"
Said the person_0 , `` See if you can catch it alive , and then fasten it to the carriage , and we will take it with us"
When the huntsmen laid hold of the maiden , she awoke full of terror , and cried to them , `` I am a poor child , deserted by father and mother ; have pity on me , and take me with you"
Then said they , `` Allerleirauh , thou wilt be useful in the kitchen , come with us , and thou canst sweep up the ashes"
So they put her in the carriage , and took her home to the royal palace.
There they pointed out to her a closet under the stairs , where no daylight entered , and said , `` Hairy animal , there canst thou live and sleep"
Then she was sent into the kitchen , and there she carried wood and water , swept the hearth , plucked the fowls , picked the vegetables , raked the ashes , and did all the dirty work.
Allerleirauh lived there for a long time in great wretchedness.
Alas , fair princess , what is to become of thee now ! It happened , however , that one day a feast was held in the palace , and she said to the cook , `` May I go up-stairs for a while , and look on ? I will place myself outside the door"
The cook answered , `` Yes , go , but you must be back here in half-an-hour to sweep the hearth"
Then she took her oil-lamp , went into her den , put off her fur-dress , and washed the soot off her face and hands , so that her full beauty once more came to light.
And she opened the nut , and took out her dress which shone like the sun , and when she had done that she went up to the festival , and every one made way for her , for no one knew her , and thought no otherwise than that she was a king 's daughter.
The person_0 came to meet her , gave his hand to her , and danced with her , and thought in his heart , `` My eyes have never yet seen any one so beautiful !"
When the dance was over she curtsied , and when the person_0 looked round again she had vanished , and none knew whither.
The guards who stood outside the palace were called and questioned , but no one had seen her.
She had , however , run into her little den , had quickly taken off her dress , made her face and hands black again , put on the fur-mantle , and again was Allerleirauh.
And now when she went into the kitchen , and was about to get to her work and sweep up the ashes , the cook said , `` Leave that alone till morning , and make me the soup for the person_0 ; I , too , will go upstairs awhile , and take a look ; but let no hairs fall in , or in future thou shalt have nothing to eat"
So the cook went away , and Allerleirauh made the soup for the king , and made bread soup and the best she could , and when it was ready she fetched her golden ring from her little den , and put it in the bowl in which the soup was served.
When the dancing was over , the person_0 had his soup brought and ate it , and he liked it so much that it seemed to him he had never tasted better.
But when he came to the bottom of the bowl , he saw a golden ring lying , and could not conceive how it could have got there.
Then he ordered the cook to appear before him.
The cook was terrified when he heard the order , and said to Allerleirauh , `` Thou hast certainly let a hair fall into the soup , and if thou hast , thou shalt be beaten for it"
When he came before the person_0 the latter asked who had made the soup ? The cook replied , `` I made it"
But the person_0 said , `` That is not true , for it was much better than usual , and cooked differently"
He answered , `` I must acknowledge that I did not make it , it was made by the rough animal"
The person_0 said , `` Go and bid it come up here"
When Allerleirauh came , the person_0 said , `` Who art thou ?"
`` I am a poor girl who no longer has any father or mother"
He asked further , `` Of what use art thou in my palace ?"
She answered , `` I am good for nothing but to have boots thrown at my head"
He continued , `` Where didst thou get the ring which was in the soup ?"
She answered , `` I know nothing about the ring"
So the person_0 could learn nothing , and had to send her away again.
After a while , there was another festival , and then , as before , Allerleirauh begged the cook for leave to go and look on.
He answered , `` Yes , but come back again in half-an-hour , and make the person_0 the bread soup which he so much likes"
Then she ran into her den , washed herself quickly , and took out of the nut the dress which was as silvery as the moon , and put it on.
Then she went up and was like a princess , and the person_0 stepped forward to meet her , and rejoiced to see her once more , and as the dance was just beginning they danced it together.
But when it was ended , she again disappeared so quickly that the person_0 could not observe where she went.
She , however , sprang into her den , and once more made herself a hairy animal , and went into the kitchen to prepare the bread soup.
When the cook had gone up-stairs , she fetched the little golden spinning-wheel , and put it in the bowl so that the soup covered it.
Then it was taken to the person_0 , who ate it , and liked it as much as before , and had the cook brought , who this time likewise was forced to confess that Allerleirauh had prepared the soup.
Allerleirauh again came before the person_0 , but she answered that she was good for nothing else but to have boots thrown at her head , and that she knew nothing at all about the little golden spinning-wheel.
When , for the third time , the person_0 held a festival , all happened just as it had done before.
The cook said , `` Faith rough-skin , thou art a witch , and always puttest something in the soup which makes it so good that the person_0 likes it better than that which I cook ,"
but as she begged so hard , he let her go up at the appointed time.
And now she put on the dress which shone like the stars , and thus entered the hall.
Again the person_0 danced with the beautiful maiden , and thought that she never yet had been so beautiful.
And whilst she was dancing , he contrived , without her noticing it , to slip a golden ring on her finger , and he had given orders that the dance should last a very long time.
When it was ended , he wanted to hold her fast by her hands , but she tore herself loose , and sprang away so quickly through the crowd that she vanished from his sight.
She ran as fast as she could into her den beneath the stairs , but as she had been too long , and had stayed more than half-an-hour she could not take off her pretty dress , but only threw over it her fur-mantle , and in her haste she did not make herself quite black , but one finger remained white.
Then Allerleirauh ran into the kitchen , and cooked the bread soup for the person_0 , and as the cook was away , put her golden reel into it.
When the person_0 found the reel at the bottom of it , he caused Allerleirauh to be summoned , and then he espied the white finger , and saw the ring which he had put on it during the dance.
Then he grasped her by the hand , and held her fast , and when she wanted to release herself and run away , her mantle of fur opened a little , and the star-dress shone forth.
The person_0 clutched the mantle and tore it off.
Then her golden hair shone forth , and she stood there in full splendor , and could no longer hide herself.
And when she had washed the soot and ashes from her face , she was more beautiful than anyone who had ever been seen on earth.
But the person_0 said , `` Thou art my dear bride , and we will never more part from each other"
Thereupon the marriage was solemnized , and they lived happily until their death"
Long , long ago there was a large plain called Adachigahara , in the province of Mutsu in Japan.
This place was said to be haunted by a cannibal goblin who took the form of an old woman.
From time to time many travelers disappeared and were never heard of more , and the old women round the charcoal braziers in the evenings , and the girls washing the household rice at the wells in the mornings , whispered dreadful stories of how the missing folk had been lured to the goblin 's cottage and devoured , for the goblin lived only on human flesh.
No one dared to venture near the haunted spot after sunset , and all those who could , avoided it in the daytime , and travelers were warned of the dreaded place.
One day as the sun was setting , a priest came to the plain.
He was a belated traveler , and his robe showed that he was a Buddhist pilgrim walking from shrine to shrine to pray for some blessing or to crave for forgiveness of sins.
He had apparently lost his way , and as it was late he met no one who could show him the road or warn him of the haunted spot.
He had walked the whole day and was now tired and hungry , and the evenings were chilly , for it was late autumn , and he began to be very anxious to find some house where he could obtain a night 's lodging.
He found himself lost in the midst of the large plain , and looked about in vain for some sign of human habitation.
At last , after wandering about for some hours , he saw a clump of trees in the distance , and through the trees he caught sight of the glimmer of a single ray of light.
He exclaimed with joy : `` Oh.
surely that is some cottage where I can get a night 's lodging !"
Keeping the light before his eyes he dragged his weary , aching feet as quickly as he could towards the spot , and soon came to a miserable-looking little cottage.
As he drew near he saw that it was in a tumble-down condition , the bamboo fence was broken and weeds and grass pushed their way through the gaps.
The paper screens which serve as windows and doors in Japan were full of holes , and the posts of the house were bent with age and seemed scarcely able to support the old thatched roof.
The hut was open , and by the light of an old lantern an old woman sat industriously spinning.
The pilgrim called to her across the bamboo fence and said : `` O Baa San -LRB- old woman -RRB- , good evening ! I am a traveler ! Please excuse me , but I have lost my way and do not know what to do , for I have nowhere to rest to-night.
I beg you to be good enough to let me spend the night under your roof"
The old woman as soon as she heard herself spoken to stopped spinning , rose from her seat and approached the intruder.
`` I am very sorry for you.
You must indeed be distressed to have lost your way in such a lonely spot so late at night.
Unfortunately I can not put you up , for I have no bed to offer you , and no accommodation whatsoever for a guest in this poor place !"
`` Oh , that does not matter ,"
said the priest ; `` all I want is a shelter under some roof for the night , and if you will be good enough just to let me lie on the kitchen floor I shall be grateful.
I am too tired to walk further to-night , so I hope you will not refuse me , otherwise I shall have to sleep out on the cold plain"
And in this way he pressed the old woman to let him stay.
She seemed very reluctant , but at last she said : `` Very well , I will let you stay here.
I can offer you a very poor welcome only , but come in now and I will make a fire , for the night is cold"
The pilgrim was only too glad to do as he was told.
He took off his sandals and entered the hut.
The old woman then brought some sticks of wood and lit the fire , and bade her guest draw near and warm himself.
`` You must be hungry after your long tramp ,"
said the old woman.
`` I will go and cook some supper for you"
She then went to the kitchen to cook some rice.
After the priest had finished his supper the old woman sat down by the fire-place , and they talked together for a long time.
The pilgrim thought to himself that he had been very lucky to come across such a kind , hospitable old woman.
At last the wood gave out , and as the fire died slowly down he began to shiver with cold just as he had done when he arrived.
`` I see you are cold ,"
said the old woman ; `` I will go out and gather some wood , for we have used it all.
You must stay and take care of the house while I am gone"
`` No , no ,"
said the pilgrim , `` let me go instead , for you are old , and I can not think of letting you go out to get wood for me this cold night !"
The old woman shook her head and said : `` You must stay quietly here , for you are my guest"
Then she left him and went out.
In a minute she came back and said : `` You must sit where you are and not move , and whatever happens do n't go near or look into the inner room.
Now mind what I tell you !"
`` If you tell me not to go near the back room , of course I wo n't ,"
said the priest , rather bewildered.
The old woman then went out again , and the priest was left alone.
The fire had died out , and the only light in the hut was that of a dim lantern.
For the first time that night he began to feel that he was in a weird place , and the old woman 's words , `` Whatever you do do n't peep into the back room ,"
aroused his curiosity and his fear.
What hidden thing could be in that room that she did not wish him to see ? For some time the remembrance of his promise to the old woman kept him still , but at last he could no longer resist his curiosity to peep into the forbidden place.
He got up and began to move slowly towards the back room.
Then the thought that the old woman would be very angry with him if he disobeyed her made him come back to his place by the fireside.
As the minutes went slowly by and the old woman did not return , he began to feel more and more frightened , and to wonder what dreadful secret was in the room behind him.
He must find out.
`` She will not know that I have looked unless I tell her.
I will just have a peep before she comes back ,"
said the man to himself.
With these words he got up on his feet -LRB- for he had been sitting all this time in Japanese fashion with his feet under him -RRB- and stealthily crept towards the forbidden spot.
With trembling hands he pushed back the sliding door and looked in.
What he saw froze the blood in his veins.
The room was full of dead men 's bones and the walls were splashed and the floor was covered with human blood.
In one corner skull upon skull rose to the ceiling , in another was a heap of arm bones , in another a heap of leg bones.
The sickening smell made him faint.
He fell backwards with horror , and for some time lay in a heap with fright on the floor , a pitiful sight.
He trembled all over and his teeth chattered , and he could hardly crawl away from the dreadful spot.
`` How horrible !"
he cried out.
`` What awful den have I come to in my travels ? May Buddha help me or I am lost.
Is it possible that that kind old woman is really the cannibal goblin ? When she comes back she will show herself in her true character and eat me up at one mouthful !"
With these words his strength came back to him and , snatching up his hat and staff , he rushed out of the house as fast as his legs could carry him.
Out into the night he ran , his one thought to get as far as he could from the goblin 's haunt.
He had not gone far when he heard steps behind him and a voice crying : `` Stop ! stop !"
He ran on , redoubling his speed , pretending not to hear.
As he ran he heard the steps behind him come nearer and nearer , and at last he recognized the old woman 's voice which grew louder and louder as she came nearer.
`` Stop ! stop , you wicked man , why did you look into the forbidden room ?"
The priest quite forgot how tired he was and his feet flew over the ground faster than ever.
Fear gave him strength , for he knew that if the goblin caught him he would soon be one of her victims.
With all his heart he repeated the prayer to Buddha : `` Namu Amida Butsu , Namu Amida Butsu"
And after him rushed the dreadful old hag , her hair flying in the wind , and her face changing with rage into the demon that she was.
In her hand she carried a large blood-stained knife , and she still shrieked after him , `` Stop ! stop !"
At last , when the priest felt he could run no more , the dawn broke , and with the darkness of night the goblin vanished and he was safe.
The priest now knew that he had met the Goblin of Adachigahara , the story of whom he had often heard but never believed to be true.
He felt that he owed his wonderful escape to the protection of Buddha to whom he had prayed for help , so he took out his rosary and bowing his head as the sun rose he said his prayers and made his thanksgiving earnestly.
He then set forward for another part of the country , only too glad to leave the haunted plain behind him"
Now in a certain place there lived a person_0 named Haridatta.
He was a farmer , but poor was the return his labor brought him.
One day , at the end of the hot hours , the person_0 , overcome by the heat , lay down under the shadow of a tree to have a doze.
Suddenly he saw a great hooded snake creeping out of an ant-hill near at hand.
So he thought to himself , `` Sure this is the guardian deity of the field , and I have not ever worshipped it.
That 's why my farming is in vain.
I will at once go and pay my respects to it"
When he had made up his mind , he got some milk , poured it into a bowl , and went to the ant-hill , and said aloud : `` O Guardian of this Field ! all this while I did not know that you dwelt here.
That is why I have not yet paid my respects to you ; pray forgive me"
And he laid the milk down and went to his house.
Next morning he came and looked , and he saw a gold denar in the bowl , and from that time onward every day the same thing occurred he gave milk to the serpent and found a gold denar.
One day the person_0 had to go to the village , and so he ordered his son to take the milk to the ant-hill.
The son brought the milk , put it down , and went back home.
Next day he went again and found a denar , so he thought to himself : `` This ant-hill is surely full of golden denars ; I 'll kill the serpent , and take them all for myself"
So next day , while he was giving the milk to the serpent , the person_0 's son struck it on the head with a cudgel.
But the serpent escaped death by the will of fate , and in a rage bit the person_0 's son with its sharp fangs , and he fell down dead at once.
His people raised him a funeral pyre not far from the field and burnt him to ashes.
Two days afterwards his father came back , and when he learned his son 's fate he grieved and mourned.
But after a time , he took the bowl of milk , went to the ant-hill , and praised the serpent with a loud voice.
After a long , long time the serpent appeared , but only with its head out of the opening of the ant-hill , and spoke to the person_0 :"
` Tis greed that brings you here , and makes you even forget the loss of your son.
From this time forward friendship between us is impossible.
Your son struck me in youthful ignorance , and I have bitten him to death.
How can I forget the blow with the cudgel ? And how can you forget the pain and grief at the loss of your son ?"
So speaking , it gave the person_0 a costly pearl and disappeared.
But before it went away it said : `` Come back no more"
The person_0 took the pearl , and went back home , cursing the folly of his son"
THE worst of ills , with jealousy compared , Are trifling torments ev ` ry where declared.
IMAGINE , to yourself a silly fool , person_5 dark suspicion grown an easy tool ; person_1 soft repose he finds , by night or day ; person_3 rings his ear , he 's wretched ev ` ry way ! Continually he dreams his forehead sprouts ; The truth of reveries he never doubts.
person_3 this I would not fully guaranty , For he who dreams , ` tis said , asleep should be ; person_4 those who 've caught , from time to time , a peep , Pretend to say -- the jealous never sleep.
A MAN who has suspicions soon will rouse ; person_3 buz a fly around his precious spouse , person_8 once he fancies cuckoldom is brought , person_4 nothing can eradicate the thought ; In spite of reason he must have a place , person_4 numbered be , among the horned race ; A cuckold to himself he freely owns , Though otherwise perhaps in flesh and bones.
GOOD folks , of cuckoldom , pray what 's the harm , person_5 give , from time to time , such dire alarm ? What injury 's received , and what 's the wrong , person_8 which so many sneer and loll their tongue ? While unacquainted with the fact , ` tis naught ; person_9 known : -- e ` en then ` tis scarcely worth a thought.
You think , however , ` tis a serious grief ; Then try to doubt it , which may bring relief , person_4 do n't resemble him who took a sup , From out the celebrated magick cup.
Be warned by others ' ills ; the tale I 'll tell ; Perhaps your irksomeness it may dispel.
BUT first , by reason let me prove , I pray , That evil such as this , and which you say , Oft weighs you down with soul-corroding care ; Is only in the mind : -- mere spright of air : Your hat upon your head for instance place , Less gently rather than 's your usual case ; Pray , do n't it presently at ease remain ? person_4 from it do you aught amiss retain ? person_1t e ` en a spot ; there 's nothing half so clear ; The features , too , they as before appear ? person_1 difference assuredly you see ? Then how can cuckoldom an evil be ? Such my conclusion , spite of fools or brutes , With whose ideas reason never suits.
YES , yes , but honor has , you know , a claim : Who e ` er denied it ? -- never 'twas my aim.
person_3 what of honor ? -- nothing else is heard ; person_8 Rome a different conduct is preferred ; The cuckold there , who takes the thing to heart , Is thought a fool , and acts a blockhead 's part ; While he , who laughs , is always well received person_4 honest fellow through the town believed.
Were this misfortune viewed with proper eyes , Such ills from cuckoldom would ne'er arise.
THAT advantageous ` tis , we now will prove : Folks laugh ; your wife a pliant glove shall move ; person_3 , if you 've twenty favorites around , A single syllable will ne'er resound.
Whene'er you speak , each word has double force ; person_8 table , you 've precedency of course , person_4 oft will get the very nicest parts ; Well pleased who serves you ! -- all the household smarts person_1 means neglect your favor to obtain ; You 've full command ; resistance would be vain.
Whence this conclusion must directly spring : person_5 be a cuckold is a useful thing.
AT cards , should adverse fortune you pursue ; person_5 take revenge is ever thought your due ; person_4 your opponent often will revoke , That you for better luck may have a cloak : person_9 you 've a friend o ` er head and ears in debt : person_8 once , to help him numbers you can get.
You fancy these your rind regales and cheers She 's better for it ; more beautiful appears ; The Spartan king , in Helen found new charms , When he 'd recovered her from Paris ' arms.
YOUR wife the same ; to make her , in your eye , More beautiful 's the aim you may rely ; For , if unkind , she would a hag be thought , Incapable soft love scenes to be taught.
These reasons make me to my thesis cling , -- person_5 be a cuckold is a useful thing.
IF much too long this introduction seem , The obvious cause is clearly in the theme , person_4 should not certainly be hurried o ` er , person_3 now for something from th ' historick store.
A CERTAIN man , no matter for his name , His country , rank , nor residence nor fame , Through fear of accidents had firmly sworn , The marriage chain should ne'er by him be worn ; person_1 tie but friendship , from the sex he 'd crave : person_9 wrong or right , the question we will wave.
Be this as ` t will , since Hymen could not find Our wight to bear the wedded knot inclined , The god of love , to manage for him tried , person_4 what he wished , from time to time supplied ; A lively fair he got , who charms displayed , person_4 made him father to a little maid ; Then died , and left the spark dissolved in tears : person_1t such as flow for wives , -LRB- as oft appears -RRB- When mourning 's nothing more than change of dress : His anguish spoke the soul in great distress.
THE daughter grew in years , improved in mien , person_4 soon the woman in her air was seen ; Time rolls apace , and once she 's ridded of her bib , Then alters daily , and her tongue gets glib , Each year still taller , till she 's found at length ; A perfect belle in look , in age , in strength.
His forward child , the father justly feared , Would cheat the priest of fees so much revered ; The lawyer too , and god of marriage-joys ; Sad fault , that future prospects oft destroys : person_5 trust her virtue was not quite so sure ; He chose a convent , to be more secure , Where this young charmer learned to pray and sew ; person_1 wicked books , unfit for girls to know , Corruption 's page the senses to beguile Dan Cupid never writes in convent style : OF nothing would she talk but holy-writ ; On which she could herself so well acquit , That oft the gravest teachers were confused ; person_5 praise her beauty , scarcely was excused ; person_1 flatt ` ry pleasure gave , and she 'd reply : Good sister stay ! -- consider , we must die ; Each feature perishes : -- ` tis naught but clay ; person_4 soon will worms upon our bodies prey : Superior needle-work our fair could do ; The spindle turn at ease : -- embroider too ; Minerva 's skill , or Clotho 's , could impart ; In tapestry she 'd gained Arachne 's art ; person_4 other talents , too , the daughter showed ; Her sense , wealth , beauty , soon were spread abroad : person_3 most her wealth a marked attention drew ; The belle had been immured with prudent view , person_5 keep her safely till a spouse was found , Who with sufficient riches should abound.
From convents , heiresses are often led Directly to the altar to be wed.
.
SOME time the father had the girl declared His lawful child , who all his fondness shared.
As soon as she was free from convent walls , Her taste at once was changed from books to balls ; Around person_2 -LRB- such was named our fair -RRB- A host of lovers showed attentive care ; Cits , courtiers , officers , the beau , the sage , Adventurers of ev ` ry rank and age.
FROM these person_2 presently made choice , Of one for whom her father gave his voice ; A handsome lad , and thought good humored too Few otherwise appear when first they woo.
Her fortune ample was ; the dow ` r the same ; The belle an only child ; the like her flame.
person_3 better still , our couple 's chief delight , Was mutual love and pleasure to excite.
TWO years in paradise thus passed the pair , When bliss was changed to Hell 's worst cank ` ring care ; A fit of jealousy the husband grieved , person_4 , strange to tell , he all at once believed , A lover with success his wife addressed , When , but for him , the suit had ne'er been pressed ; For though the spark , the charming fair to gain , Would ev ` ry wily method try , 'twas plain , Yet had the husband never terrors shown , The lover , in despair , had quickly flown.
WHAT should a husband do whose wife is sought , With anxious fondness by another ? Naught.
` Tis this that leads me ever to advise , person_5 sleep at ease whichever side he lies.
In case she lends the spark a willing ear , ` Twill not be better if you interfere : She 'll seek more opportunities you 'll find ; person_3 if to pay attention she 's inclined , You 'll raise the inclination in her brain , person_4 then the danger will begin again.
WHERE ` ER suspicion dwells you may be sure , person_5 cuckoldom ` twill prove a place secure.
person_3 -LRB- such the husband 's name -RRB- , ` tis clear , Thought otherwise , as we shall make appear.
He merits pity , and should be excused , Since he , by bad advice , was much abused ; When had he trusted to himself to guide , He 'd acted wisely , ' -- hear and you 'll decide.
THE Enchantress person_0 flourished in those days ; E ` en Circe , she excelled in Satan 's ways ; The storms she made obedient to her will , person_4 regulated with superior skill ; In chains the destinies she kept around ; The gentle zephyrs were her sages found ; The winds , her lacqueys , flew with rapid course ; Alert , but obstinate , with pow ` rful force.
WITH all her art th ' enchantress could not find , A charm to guard her ` gainst the urchin blind ; Though she 'd the pow ` r to stop the star of day , She burned to gain a being formed of clay.
person_9 merely a salute her wish had been , She might have had it , easily was seen ; person_3 bliss unbounded clearly was her view , person_4 this with anxious ardor she 'd pursue.
Though charms she had , still person_7 would remain , person_5 her who had his heart a faithful swain : In vain she sought the genial soft caress : person_5 naught but friendship he 'd express.
Like person_7 , husbands nowhere now are found , person_4 I 'm not certain , such were e ` er on ground.
I rather fancy , hist ` ry is not here , What we would wish , since truth it do n't revere , I nothing in the hippogriff perceive , Or lance enchanted , but we may believe ; Yet this I must confess has raised surprise , Howe'er , to pass it will perhaps suffice ; I 've many passed the same , -- in ancient days ; Men different were from us : had other ways ; Unlike the present manners , we 'll suppose ; Or history would other facts disclose.
THE am ` rous person_0 to obtain her end , Made use of philters , and would e ` en descend ; person_5 ev ` ry wily look and secret art , That could to him she loved her flame impart.
Our swain his marriage vow to this opposed ; person_8 which th ' enchantress much surprise disclosed.
You doubtless fancy , she exclaimed one day , That your fidelity must worth display ; person_3 I should like to know if equal care , person_2 takes to act upon the square.
Suppose your wife had got a smart gallant , Would you refuse as much a fair to grant ? person_4 if person_2 , careless of your fame , Should carry to extremes a guilty flame , Would you but half way go ? I truly thought , By sturdy hymen thus you 'd not be caught.
Domestick joys should be to cits confined ; For none but such were scenes like those designed.
BUT as to you : -- decline Love 's choice pursuit ! person_1 anxious wish to taste forbidden fruit ? Though such you banish from your thoughts I see , A friend thereto I fain would have you be.
Come make the trial : you 'll person_2 find , Quite new again when to her arms resigned.
person_3 let me tell you , though your wife be chaste , Erastus to your mansion oft is traced.
AND do you think , cried person_7 with an air , Erastus visits as a lover there ? person_5o much he seems , my friend , to act a part , That proves the villain both in head and heart.
SAID person_0 , mortified at this reply , Though he 's a friend on whom you may rely , person_2 beauty has ; much worth the man , With smart address to execute his plan ; person_4 when we meet accomplishments so rare ; Few women but will tumble in the snare.
THIS conversation was by person_7 felt , A wife , brisk , young , and formed ` mid joys to melt ; A man well versed in Cupid 's wily way ; person_1 courtier bolder of the present day ; Well made and handsome , with attractive mind ; Wo what might happen was the husband blind ? Whoever trusts implicitly to friends , person_5o oft will find , on shadows he depends.
Pray where 's the devotee , who could withstand , The tempting glimpse of charms that all command ; Which first invite by halves : then bolder grow , Till fascination spreads , and bosoms glow ? Our person_7 fancied this already done , Or , at the best , might be too soon begun : On these foundations gloomy views arose , Chimeras dire , destructive of repose.
TH ' enchantress presently a hint received , That those suspicions much the husband grieved ; person_4 better to succeed and make him fret , She told him of a thing , ` mong witches met , 'Twas metamorphose-water -LRB- such the name -RRB- With this could person_7 take Erastus ' frame ; His gait , his look , his carriage , air and voice Thus changed , he easily could mark her choice , Each step observe : -- enough , he asked no more , Erastus ' shape the husband quickly bore ; His easy manner , and appearance caught : With captivating smiles his wife he sought.
person_4 thus addressed the fair with ev ` ry grace : -- How blithe that look ! enchanting is your face ; Your beauty 's always great , I needs must say , person_3 never more delightful than to-day.
CALISTA saw the flatt ` ring lover 's scheme ; person_4 turned to ridicule the wily theme.
His manner person_7 changed , from gay to grave : person_1w sighs , then tears ; but nothing could enslave ; The lady , virtue firmly would maintain ; person_8 length , the husband , seeing all was vain , Proposed a bribe , and offered such a sum , Her anger dropt : the belle was overcome.
The price was very large , it might excuse , Though she at first was prompted to refuse ; person_8 last , howe'er her chastity gave way : person_5 gold 's allurements few will offer nay ! The cash , resistance had so fully laid , Surrender would at any time be made.
The precious ore has universal charms , Enchains the will , or sets the world in arms ! THOUGH elegant your form , and smart your dress , Your air , your language , ev ` ry warmth express Yet , if a banker , or a financier , With handsome presents happen to appear , person_8 once is blessed the wealthy paramor , While you a year may languish at the door.
THIS heart , inflexible , it seems , gave ground , person_5 money 's pow ` rful , all-subduing sound ; The rock now disappeared -- and , in its stead , A lamb was found , quite easy to be led , Who , as a proof , resistance she would wave , A kiss , by way of earnest freely gave.
person_1 further would the husband push the dame , person_1r be himself a witness of his shame , person_3 straight resumed his form , and to his wife , Cried , O person_2 ! once my soul and life person_2 , whom I fondly cherished long ; person_2 , whose affection was so strong ; Is gold more dear than hearts in union twined ? person_5 wash thy guilt , thy blood should be assigned.
person_3 still I love thee , spite of evil thought ; My death will pay the ills thou ` st on me brought.
THE metamorphosis our dame surprised ; person_5 give relief her tears but just sufficed ; She scarcely spoke ; the husband , days remained , Reflecting on the circumstance that pained.
Himself a cuckold could he ever make , By mere design a liberty to take ? person_3 , horned or not ? the question seemed to be , When person_0 told him , if from doubts not free , Drink from the cup : -- with so much art ` tis made , That , whose'er of cuckoldom 's afraid , Let him but put it to his eager lips person_9 he 's a cuckold , out the liquor slips ; He naught can swallow ; and the whole is thrown About his face or clothes , as oft 's been shown.
person_3 should , from out his brow , no horns yet pop -- He drinks the whole , nor spills a single drop.
THE doubt to solve , our husband took a sup , From this famed , formidably , magick cup ; person_1r did he any of the liquor waste : -- Well , I am safe , said he , my wife is chaste , Though on myself it wholly could depend ; person_3 from it what have I to apprehend ? Make room , good folks , who leafless branches wear ; person_9 you desire those honors I should share.
Thus person_7 spoke , and to his precious wife A curious sermon preached , it seems , on life.
IF cuckoldom , my friends , such torments give ; ` Tis better far ` mong savages to live ! LEST worse should happen , person_7 settled spies , Who , o ` er his lady watched with Argus ' eyes.
She turned coquette ; restraints the FAIR awake , person_4 only prompt more liberties to take.
The silly husband secrets tried to know , person_4 rather seemed to seek the wily foe , Which fear has often rendered fatal round , When otherwise the ill had ne'er been found.
FOUR times an hour his lips to sip he placed ; person_4 clearly , for a week was not disgraced.
Howe'er , no further went his ease of mind ; Oh , fatal science ! fatally designed ! With fury person_7 threw the cup away , person_4 , in his rage , himself inclined to slay.
HIS wife he straight shut up within a tower , Where , morn and night , he showed a husband 's pow ` r , Reproach bestowed : while she bewailed her lot , ` Twere better far , if he 'd concealed the blot ; For now , from mouth to mouth , and ear to ear , It echoed , and re-echoed far and near.
MEANWHILE person_2 led a wretched life ; person_1 gold nor jewels person_7 left his wife , Which made the jailer faithful , since ` twere vain person_5 hope , unbribed , this Cerberus to gain.
AT length , the wife a lucky moment sought , When person_7 seemed by soft caresses caught.
Said she , I 've guilty been , I freely own ; person_3 though my crime is great , I 'm not alone ; Alas ! how few escape from like mishap ; ` Mong Hymen 's band so common is the trap ; person_4 though at you the immaculate may smile , What use to fret and all the sex revile ? WELL I 'll console myself , and pardon you , Cried person_7 , when sufficient I can view , Of ornamented foreheads , just like mine , person_5 form among themselves a royal line ; ` Tis only to employ the magick cup , From which I learned your secrets by a sup.
HIS plan to execute , the husband went , person_4 ev ` ry passenger was thither sent , Where person_7 entertained , with sumptuous fare ; person_4 , at the end , proposed the magick snare : Said he , my wife played truant to my bed ; Wish you to know if your 's be e ` er misled ? ` Tis right how things go on at home to trace , person_4 if upon the cup your lips you place , In case your wife be chaste , there 'll naught go wrong ; person_3 , if to Vulcan 's troop you should belong , person_4 prove an antlered brother , you will spill The liquor ev ` ry way , in spite of skill.
TO all the men , that person_7 could collect , The cup he offered , and they tried th ' effect ; person_3 few escaped , at which they laughed or cried , As feelings led , or cuckoldom they spied , Whose surly countenance the wags believed , In many houses near , might be perceived.
ALREADY person_7 had sufficient found , person_5 form a regiment and march around ; person_8 times they threatened governors to hang , Unless they would surrender to their gang ; person_3 few they wanted to complete the force , person_4 soon a royal army made of course.
From day to day their numbers would augment , Without the beat of drum , to great extent ; Their rank was always fixed by length of horn : Foot soldiers those , whose branches short were borne ; Dragoons , lieutenants , captains , some became , person_4 even colonels , those of greater fame.
The portion spilled by each from out the vase Was taken for the length , and fixed the place.
A wight , who in an instant spilled the whole , Was made a gen ` ral : not commander sole , For many followed of the same degree , person_4 'twas determined they should equals be.
THE rank and file now nearly found complete , person_4 full enough an enemy to beat , Young person_6 , nephew of famed Charlemain , By chance came by : the spark they tried to gain , person_4 , after treating him with sumptuous cheer , person_8 length the magick cup mas made appear ; person_3 no way person_6 could be led to drink : My wife , cried he , I truly faithful think , person_4 that 's enough ; the cup can nothing more ; Should I , who sleep with two eyes , sleep with four ? I feel at ease , thank heav ` n , and have no dread , Then why to seek new cares should I be led ? Perhaps , if I the cup should hold awry , The liquor out might on a sudden fly ; I 'm sometimes awkward , and in case the cup Should fancy me another , who would sup , The error , doubtless , might unpleasant be : person_5 any thing but this I will agree , person_5 give you pleasure , person_7 , so adieu ; Then person_6 from the antlered corps withdrew.
SAID person_7 , gentlemen , ` tis pretty clear , So wise as person_6 , none of us appear ; person_3 let 's console ourselves ; -- ` tis very plain , The same are others : -- to repine were vain.
AT length , such numbers on their rolls they bore ; person_2 liberty obtained once more , As promised formerly , and then her charms Again were taken to her spouse 's arms.
LET person_6 's conduct , husbands , be your line ; Who person_7 's follows surely will repine.
Perhaps the first should have been made the chief ; Though , doubtless , that is matter of belief.
person_1 mortal can from danger feel secure ; person_5 be exempt from spilling , who is sure ? person_1r Roland , person_6 , nor famed Charlemain , person_3 what had acted wrong to risk the stain"
When the wind sweeps across the grass , the field has a ripple like a pond , and when it sweeps across the corn the field waves to and fro like a high sea.
That is called the wind 's dance ; but the wind does not dance only , he also tells stories ; and how loudly he can sing out of his deep chest , and how different it sounds in the tree-tops in the forest , and through the loopholes and clefts and cracks in walls ! Do you see how the wind drives the clouds up yonder , like a frightened flock of sheep ? Do you hear how the wind howls down here through the open valley , like a watchman blowing his horn ? With wonderful tones he whistles and screams down the chimney and into the fireplace.
The fire crackles and flares up , and shines far into the room , and the little place is warm and snug , and it is pleasant to sit there listening to the sounds.
Let the wind speak , for he knows plenty of stories and fairy tales , many more than are known to any of us.
Just hear what the wind can tell.
Huh -- uh -- ush ! roar along ! That is the burden of the song.
`` By the shores of the Great Belt , one of the straits that unite the Cattegut with the Baltic , lies an old mansion with thick red walls ,"
says the person_5.
`` I know every stone in it ; I saw it when it still belonged to the castle of Marsk Stig on the promontory.
But it had to be pulled down , and the stone was used again for the walls of a new mansion in another place , the baronial mansion of person_4 , which still stands by the coast.
`` I knew them , the noble lords and ladies , the changing races that dwelt there , and now I 'm going to tell about person_3 and his daughters.
How proudly he carried himself -- he was of royal blood ! He could do more than merely hunt the stag and empty the wine-can.
` It _ shall _ be done , ' he was accustomed to say.
`` His wife walked proudly in gold-embroidered garments over the polished marble floors.
The tapestries were gorgeous , the furniture was expensive and artistically carved.
She had brought gold and silver plate with her into the house , and there was German beer in the cellar.
Black fiery horses neighed in the stables.
There was a wealthy look about the house of person_4 at that time , when wealth was still at home there.
`` Four children dwelt there also ; three delicate maidens , Ida , Joanna , and person_1 : I have never forgotten their names.
`` They were rich people , noble people , born in affluence , nurtured in affluence.
`` Huh -- sh ! roar along !"
sang the person_5 ; and then he continued : `` I did not see here , as in other great noble houses , the high-born lady sitting among her women in the great hall turning the spinning-wheel : here she swept the sounding chords of the cithern , and sang to the sound , but not always old Danish melodies , but songs of a strange land.
It was ` live and let live ' here : stranger guests came from far and near , the music sounded , the goblets clashed , and I was not able to drown the noise ,"
said the person_5.
`` Ostentation , and haughtiness , and splendor , and display , and rule were there , but the fear of the Lord was not there.
`` And it was just on the evening of the first day of May ,"
the person_5 continued.
`` I came from the west , and had seen how the ships were being crushed by the waves , with all on board , and flung on the west coast of Jutland.
I had hurried across the heath , and over Jutland 's wood-girt eastern coast , and over the Island of Fuenen , and now I drove over the Great Belt , groaning and sighing.
`` Then I lay down to rest on the shore of Seeland , in the neighborhood of the great house of person_4 , where the forest , the splendid oak forest , still rose.
`` The young men-servants of the neighborhood were collecting branches and brushwood under the oak trees ; the largest and driest they could find they carried into the village , and piled them up in a heap , and set them on fire ; and men and maids danced , singing in a circle round the blazing pile.
`` I lay quite quiet ,"
continued the person_5 ; `` but I silently touched a branch , which had been brought by the handsomest of the men-servants , and the wood blazed up brightly , blazed up higher than all the rest ; and now he was the chosen one , and bore the name the Street-goat , and might choose his Street-lamb first from among the maids ; and there was mirth and rejoicing , greater than I had ever heard before in the halls of the rich baronial mansion.
`` And the noble lady drove towards the baronial mansion , with her three daughters , in a gilded carriage drawn by six horses.
The daughters were young and fair -- three charming blossoms , rose , lily , and pale hyacinth.
The mother was a proud tulip , and never acknowledged the salutation of one of the men or maids who paused in their sport to do her honor : the gracious lady seemed a flower that was rather stiff in the stalk.
`` Rose , lily , and pale hyacinth ; yes , I saw them all three ! Whose lambkins will they one day become ? thought I ; their Street-goat will be a gallant knight , perhaps a prince.
Huh -- sh ! hurry along ! hurry along ! `` Yes , the carriage rolled on with them , and the peasant people resumed their dancing.
They rode that summer through all the villages round about.
But in the night , when I rose again ,"
said the person_5 , `` the very noble lady lay down , to rise again no more : that thing came upon her which comes upon all -- there is nothing new in that.
`` person_3 stood for a space silent and thoughtful.
` The proudest tree can be bowed without being broken , ' said a voice within him.
His daughters wept , and all the people in the mansion wiped their eyes ; but Lady person_2 had driven away -- and I drove away too , and rushed along , huh -- sh !"
said the person_5.
`` I returned again ; I often returned again over the Island of Fuenen , and the shores of the Belt , and I sat down by person_4 , by the splendid oak wood ; there the heron made his nest , and wood-pigeons haunted the place , and blue ravens , and even the black stork.
It was still spring ; some of them were yet sitting on their eggs , others had already hatched their young.
But how they flew up , how they cried ! The axe sounded , blow on blow : the wood was to be felled.
person_3 wanted to build a noble ship , a man-of-war , a three-decker , which the king would be sure to buy ; and therefore the wood must be felled , the landmark of the seamen , the refuge of the birds.
The hawk started up and flew away , for its nest was destroyed ; the heron and all the birds of the forest became homeless , and flew about in fear and in anger : I could well understand how they felt.
Crows and ravens croaked aloud as if in scorn.
` Crack , crack ! the nest cracks , cracks , cracks ! ' `` Far in the interior of the wood , where the noisy swarm of labourers were working , stood person_3 and his three daughters ; and all laughed at the wild cries of the birds ; only one , the youngest , person_1 , felt grieved in her heart ; and when they made preparations to fell a tree that was almost dead , and on whose naked branches the black stork had built his nest , whence the little storks were stretching out their heads , she begged for mercy for the little things , and tears came into her eyes.
Therefore the tree with the black stork 's nest was left standing.
The tree was not worth speaking of.
`` There was a great hewing and sawing , and a three-decker was built.
The architect was of low origin , but of great pride ; his eyes and forehead told how clever he was , and person_3 was fond of listening to him , and so was person_3 's daughter Ida , the eldest , who was now fifteen years old ; and while he built a ship for the father , he was building for himself an airy castle , into which he and Ida were to go as a married couple -- which might indeed have happened , if the castle with stone walls , and ramparts , and moats had remained.
But in spite of his wise head , the architect remained but a poor bird ; and , indeed , what business has a sparrow to take part in a dance of peacocks ? Huh -- sh ! I careered away , and he careered away too , for he was not allowed to stay ; and little Ida got over it , because she was obliged to get over it.
`` The proud black horses were neighing in the stable ; they were worth looking at , and accordingly they _ were _ looked at.
The admiral , who had been sent by the king himself to inspect the new ship and take measures for its purchase , spoke loudly in admiration of the beautiful horses.
`` I heard all that ,"
said the person_5.
`` I accompanied the gentlemen through the open door , and strewed blades of straw like bars of gold before their feet.
person_3 wanted to have gold , and the admiral wished for the proud black horses , and that is why he praised them so much ; but the hint was not taken , and consequently the ship was not bought.
It remained on the shore covered over with boards , a Noah 's ark that never got to the water -- Huh -- sh ! rush away ! away ! -- and that was a pity.
`` In the winter , when the fields were covered with snow , and the water with large blocks of ice that I blew up on to the coast ,"
continued the person_5 , `` crows and ravens came , all as black as might be , great flocks of them , and alighted on the dead , deserted , lonely ship by the shore , and croaked in hoarse accents of the wood that was no more , of the many pretty bird 's nests destroyed , and the little ones left without a home ; and all for the sake of that great bit of lumber , that proud ship that never sailed forth.
`` I made the snow-flakes whirl , and the snow lay like a great lake high around the ship , and drifted over it.
I let it hear my voice , that it might know what a storm has to say.
Certainly I did my part towards teaching it seamanship.
Huh -- sh ! push along ! `` And the winter passed away ; winter and summer , both passed away , and they are still passing away , even as I pass away ; as the snow whirls along , and the apple blossom whirls along , and the leaves fall -- away ! away ! away ! and men are passing away too ! `` But the daughters were still young , and little Ida was a rose , as fair to look upon as on the day when the architect saw her.
I often seized her long brown hair , when she stood in the garden by the apple tree , musing , and not heeding how I strewed blossoms on her hair , and loosened it , while she was gazing at the red sun and the golden sky , through the dark underwood and the trees of the garden.
`` Her sister was bright and slender as a lily.
Joanna had height and deportment , but was like her mother , rather stiff in the stalk.
She was very fond of walking through the great hall , where hung the portraits of her ancestors.
The women were painted in dresses of silk and velvet , with a tiny little hat , embroidered with pearls , on their plaited hair.
They were handsome women.
The gentlemen were represented clad in steel , or in costly cloaks lined with squirrel 's skin ; they wore little ruffs , and swords at their sides , but not buckled to their hips.
Where would Joanna 's picture find its place on that wall some day ? and how would _ he _ look , her noble lord and husband ? This is what she thought of , and of this she spoke softly to herself.
I heard it , as I swept into the long hall , and turned round to come out again.
`` person_1 , the pale hyacinth , a child of fourteen , was quiet and thoughtful ; her great deep blue eyes had a musing look , but the childlike smile still played around her lips : I was not able to blow it away , nor did I wish to do so.
`` We met in the garden , in the hollow lane , in the field and meadow ; she gathered herbs and flowers which she knew would be useful to her father in concocting the drinks and drops he distilled.
person_3 was arrogant and proud , but he was also a learned man , and knew a great deal.
That was no secret , and many opinions were expressed concerning it.
In his chimney there was fire even in summer time.
He would lock the door of his room , and for days the fire would be poked and raked ; but of this he did not talk much -- the forces of nature must be conquered in silence ; and soon he would discover the art of making the best thing of all -- the red gold.
`` That is why the chimney was always smoking , therefore the flames crackled so frequently.
Yes , I was there too ,"
said the person_5.
`` Let it go , I sang down through the chimney : it will end in smoke , air , coals and ashes ! You will burn yourself ! Hu-uh-ush ! drive away ! drive away ! But person_3 did _ not _ drive it away"
`` The splendid black horses in the stable -- what became of them ? what became of the old gold and silver vessels in cupboards and chests , the cows in the fields , and the house and home itself ? Yes , they may melt , may melt in the golden crucible , and yet yield no gold.
`` Empty grew the barns and store-rooms , the cellars and magazines.
The servants decreased in number , and the mice multiplied.
Then a window broke , and then another , and I could get in elsewhere besides at the door ,"
said the person_5"
` Where the chimney smokes the meal is being cooked , ' the proverb says.
But here the chimney smoked that devoured all the meals , for the sake of the red gold.
`` I blew through the courtyard-gate like a watchman blowing his horn ,"
the person_5 went on , `` but no watchman was there.
I twirled the weathercock round on the summit of the tower , and it creaked like the snoring of the warder , but no warder was there ; only mice and rats were there.
Poverty laid the tablecloth ; poverty sat in the wardrobe and in the larder ; the door fell off its hinges , cracks and fissures made their appearance , and I went in and out at pleasure ; and that is how I know all about it.
`` Amid smoke and ashes , amid sorrow and sleepless nights , the hair and beard of the master turned gray , and deep furrows showed themselves around his temples ; his skin turned pale and yellow , as his eyes looked greedily for the gold , the desired gold.
`` I blew the smoke and ashes into his face and beard : the result of his labor was debt instead of pelf.
I sung through the burst window-panes and the yawning clefts in the walls.
I blew into the chests of drawers belonging to the daughters , wherein lay the clothes that had become faded and threadbare from being worn over and over again.
That was not the song that had been sung at the children 's cradle.
The lordly life had changed to a life of penury.
I was the only one who rejoiced aloud in that castle ,"
said the person_5.
`` I snowed them up , and they say snow keeps people warm.
They had no wood , and the forest from which they might have brought it was cut down.
It was a biting frost.
I rushed in through loopholes and passages , over gables and roofs , that I might be brisk.
They were lying in bed because of the cold , the three high-born daughters ; and their father was crouching under his leathern coverlet.
Nothing to bite , nothing to break , no fire on the hearth -- there was a life for high-born people ! Huh-sh , let it go ! But that is what my Lord person_2 could _ not _ do -- he could _ not _ let it go"
` After winter comes spring , ' he said.
` After want , good times will come : one must not lose patience ; one must learn to wait ! Now my house and lands are mortgaged , it is indeed high time ; and the gold will soon come.
At Easter ! ' `` I heard how he spoke thus , looking at a spider 's web.
` Thou cunning little weaver , thou dost teach me perseverance.
Let them tear thy web , and thou wilt begin it again , and complete it.
Let them destroy it again , and thou wilt resolutely begin to work again -- again ! That is what we must do , and that will repay itself at last.
' `` It was the morning of Easter-day.
The bells sounded from the neighbouring church , and the sun seemed to rejoice in the sky.
The master had watched through the night in feverish excitement , and had been melting and cooling , distilling and mixing.
I heard him sighing like a soul in despair ; I heard him praying , and I noticed how he held his breath.
The lamp was burnt out , but he did not notice it.
I blew at the fire of coals , and it threw its red glow upon his ghastly white face , lighting it up with a glare , and his sunken eyes looked forth wildly out of their deep sockets -- but they became larger and larger , as though they would burst.
`` Look at the alchymic glass ! It glows in the crucible , red-hot , and pure and heavy ! He lifted it with a trembling hand , and cried with a trembling voice , ` Gold ! gold ! ' `` He was quite dizzy -- I could have blown him down ,"
said the person_5 ; `` but I only fanned the glowing coals , and accompanied him through the door to where his daughters sat shivering.
His coat was powdered with ashes , and there were ashes in his beard and in his tangled hair.
He stood straight up , and held his costly treasure on high , in the brittle glass.
` Found , found ! -- Gold , gold ! ' he shouted , and again held aloft the glass to let it flash in the sunshine ; but his hand trembled , and the alchymic glass fell clattering to the ground , and broke into a thousand pieces ; and the last bubble of his happiness had burst ! Hu-uh-ush ! rushing away ! -- and I rushed away from the gold-maker 's house.
`` Late in autumn , when the days are short , and the mist comes and strews cold drops upon the berries and leafless branches , I came back in fresh spirits , rushed through the air , swept the sky clear , and snapped the dry twigs -- which is certainly no great labor , but yet it must be done.
Then there was another kind of sweeping clean at person_3 's , in the mansion of person_4.
His enemy , Owe Rainel , of Basnaes , was there with the mortgage of the house and everything it contained in his pocket.
I drummed against the broken window-panes , beat against the old rotten doors , and whistled through cracks and rifts -- huh-sh ! Mr.
Owe Rainel did not like staying there.
Ida and person_1 wept bitterly ; Joanna stood pale and proud , and bit her thumb till it bled -- but what could that avail ? Owe Rainel offered to allow person_3 to remain in the mansion till the end of his life , but no thanks were given him for his offer.
I listened to hear what occurred.
I saw the ruined gentleman lift his head and throw it back prouder than ever , and I rushed against the house and the old lime trees with such force , that one of the thickest branches broke , one that was not decayed ; and the branch remained lying at the entrance as a broom when any one wanted to sweep the place out : and a grand sweeping out there was -- I thought it would be so.
-LRB- Illustration : LEAVING THE OLD HOME.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` It was hard on that day to preserve one 's composure ; but their will was as hard as their fortune.
`` There was nothing they could call their own except the clothes they wore : yes , there was one thing more -- the alchymist 's glass , a new one that had lately been bought , and filled with what had been gathered up from the ground of the treasure which promised so much but never kept its promise.
person_3 hid the glass in his bosom , and taking his stick in his hand , the once rich gentleman passed with his daughters out of the house of person_4.
I blew cold upon his heated cheeks , I stroked his gray beard and his long white hair , and I sang as well as I could , -- ` Huh-sh ! gone away ! gone away ! ' And that was the end of the wealth and splendor.
`` Ida walked on one side of the old man , and person_1 on the other.
Joanna turned round at the entrance -- why ? Fortune would not turn because she did so.
She looked at the old walls of what had once been the castle of Marsk Stig , and perhaps she thought of his daughters : ` The eldest gave the youngest her hand.
And forth they went to the far-off land.
' Was she thinking of this old song ? Here were three of them , and their father was with them too.
They walked along the road on which they had once driven in their splendid carriage -- they walked forth as beggars , with their father , and wandered out into the open field , and into a mud hut , which they rented for a dollar and a half a year -- into their new house with the empty rooms and empty vessels.
Crows and magpies fluttered above them , and cried , as if in contempt , ` Craw ! craw ! out of the nest ! craw ! craw ! ' as they had done in the wood at person_4 when the trees were felled.
`` person_2 and his daughters could not help hearing it.
I blew about their ears , for what use would it be that they should listen ? `` And they went to live in the mud hut on the open field , and I wandered away over moor and field , through bare bushes and leafless forests , to the open waters , the free shores , to other lands -- huh-uh-ush ! -- away , away ! year after year !"
And how did person_3 and his daughters prosper ? The person_5 tells us : `` The one I saw last , yes , for the last time , was person_1 , the pale hyacinth : then she was old and bent , for it was fifty years afterwards.
She lived longer than the rest ; she knew all.
`` Yonder on the heath , by the Jutland town of Wiborg , stood the fine new house of the canon , built of red bricks with projecting gables ; the smoke came up thickly from the chimney.
The canon 's gentle lady and her beautiful daughters sat in the bay window , and looked over the hawthorn hedge of the garden towards the brown heath.
What were they looking at ? Their glances rested upon the stork 's nest without , and on the hut , which was almost falling in ; the roof consisted of moss and houseleek , in so far as a roof existed there at all -- the stork 's nest covered the greater part of it , and that alone was in proper condition , for it was kept in order by the stork himself.
`` That is a house to be looked at , but not to be touched ; I must deal gently with it ,"
said the person_5.
`` For the sake of the stork 's nest the hut has been allowed to stand , though it was a blot upon the landscape.
They did not like to drive the stork away , therefore the old shed was left standing , and the poor woman who dwelt in it was allowed to stay : she had the Egyptian bird to thank for that ; or was it perchance her reward , because she had once interceded for the nest of its black brother in the forest of person_4 ? At that time she , the poor woman , was a young child , a pale hyacinth in the rich garden.
She remembered all that right well , did person_1"
` Oh ! oh ! ' Yes , people can sigh like the wind moaning in the rushes and reeds.
` Oh ! oh ! '"
she sighed , `` no bells sounded at thy burial , person_3 ! The poor schoolboys did not even sing a psalm when the former lord of person_4 was laid in the earth to rest ! Oh , everything has an end , even misery.
Sister Ida became the wife of a peasant.
That was the hardest trial that befell our father , that the husband of a daughter of his should be a miserable serf , whom the proprietor could mount on the wooden horse for punishment ! I suppose he is under the ground now.
And thou , Ida ? Alas , alas ! it is not ended yet , wretch that I am ! Grant me that I may die , kind Heaven ! ' `` That was person_1 's prayer in the wretched hut which was left standing for the sake of the stork.
`` I took pity on the fairest of the sisters ,"
said the person_5.
`` Her courage was like that of a man , and in man 's clothes she took service as a sailor on board of a ship.
She was sparing of words , and of a dark countenance , but willing at her work.
But she did not know how to climb ; so I blew her overboard before anybody found out that she was a woman , and according to my thinking that was well done !"
said the person_5.
`` On such an Easter morning as that on which person_3 had fancied that he had found the red gold , I heard the tones of a psalm under the stork 's nest , among the crumbling walls -- it was person_1 's last song.
`` There was no window , only a hole in the wall.
The sun rose up like a mass of gold , and looked through.
What a splendor he diffused ! Her eyes were breaking , and her heart was breaking -- but that they would have done , even if the sun had not shone that morning on person_1.
`` The stork covered her hut till her death.
I sang at her grave !"
said the person_5.
`` I sang at her father 's grave ; I know where his grave is , and where hers is , and nobody else knows it.
`` New times , changed times ! The old high-road now runs through cultivated fields ; the new road winds among the trim ditches , and soon the railway will come with its train of carriages , and rush over the graves which are forgotten like the names -- hu-ush ! passed away , passed away ! `` That is the story of person_3 and his daughters.
Tell it better , any of you , if you know how ,"
said the person_5 , and turned away -- and he was gone"
IN Lombardy 's fair land , in days of yore , Once dwelt a prince , of youthful charms , a store ; Each FAIR , with anxious look , his favors sought , person_3 ev ` ry heart within his net was caught.
Quite proud of beauteous form and smart address , In which the world was led to acquiesce , He cried one day , while ALL attention paid , I 'll bet a million , Nature never made Beneath the sun , another man like me , Whose symmetry with mine can well agree.
If such exist , and here will come , I swear I 'll show him ev ` ry lib ` ral princely care.
A noble person_6 , who the challenge heard , This answer gave the king his soul preferr 'd -- Great prince , if you would see a handsome man , person_4 have my brother here should be your plan ; A frame more perfect Nature never gave ; person_2 this to prove , your courtly dames I crave ; May judge the fact , when I 'm convinc 'd they 'll find : Like you , the youth will please all womankind ; person_3 since so many sweets at once may cloy , ` person_0 well to have a partner in your joy.
THE king , surpris 'd , expressed a wish to view This brother , form 'd by lines so very true ; We 'll see , said he , if here his charms divine Attract the heart of ev ` ry nymph , like mine ; person_3 should success attend our am ` rous lord , person_4 you , my friend , full credit we 'll accord.
AWAY the person_6 flew , person_5 to get , -LRB- So nam 'd was he in whom these features met ; -RRB- ` Midst woods and lawns , retir 'd from city strife , person_3 lately wedded to a beauteous wife ; If bless 'd , I know not ; but with such a fair , On him must rest the folly to despair.
THE person_6 courtier came , his business told The brilliant offers from the monarch bold ; His mission had success , but still the youth Distraction felt , which ` gan to shake his truth ; A pow ` rful monarch 's favor there he view 'd ; A partner here , with melting tears bedew 'd ; person_3 while he wavered on the painful choice , She thus address 'd her spouse with plaintive voice : CAN you , person_5 , so truly cruel prove , person_4 quit my fervent love in courts to move ? The promises of kings are airy dreams , person_3 scarcely last beyond the day 's extremes By watchful , anxious care alone retain 'd , person_3 lost , through mere caprice , as soon as gain 'd.
If weary of my charms , alas ! you feel , Still think , my love , what joys these woods conceal ; Here dwell around tranquillity and ease ; The streams ' soft murmurs , and the balmy breeze , Invite to sleep ; these vales where breathe the doves , All , all , my dear person_5 , renew our loves ; You laugh ! -- Ah ! cruel , go , expose thy charms , Grim death will quickly spare me these alarms ! JOCONDE 'S reply our records ne'er relate , Nor what he did , nor how he left his mate ; person_3 since contemp ` raries decline the task ; ` person_0 folly , such details of me to ask.
We 're told , howe'er , when ready to depart , With flowing tears she press 'd him to her heart ; person_3 on his arm a brilliant bracelet plac 'd , With hair around her picture nicely trac 'd ; This guard in full remembrance of my love , She cried ; -- then clasped her hands to pow ` rs above.
TO see such dire distress , and poignant grief , Might lead to think , soon death would bring relief ; person_2 I , who know full well the female mind , At best oft doubt affliction of the kind.
JOCONDE set out at length ; but that same morn ; As on he mov 'd , his soul with anguish torn , He found the picture he had quite forgot , Then turn 'd his steed , and back began to trot.
While musing what excuse to make his mate , At home he soon arriv 'd , and op 'd the gate ; Alighted unobserv 'd , ran up the stairs ; person_3 ent ` ring to the lady unawares , He found this darling rib , so full of charms ; Intwin 'd within a valet 's brawny arms ! ` MIDST first emotions of the husband 's ire ; person_4 stab them while asleep he felt desire ; Howe'er , he nothing did ; the courteous wight ; In this dilemma , clearly acted right ; The less of such misfortunes said is best ; ` person_0 well the soul of feeling to divest ; Their lives , through pity , or prudential care ; With much reluctance , he was led to spare ; Asleep he left the pair , for if awake , In honor , he a diff ` rent step would take.
-- Had any smart gallant supplied my place , Said he , I might put up with this disgrace ; person_2 naught consoles the thought of such a beast ; Dan Cupid wantons , or is blind at least ; A bet , or some such whim , induc 'd the god , person_4 give his sanction to amours so odd.
THIS perfidy person_5 so much dismay 'd ; His spirits droop 'd , his lilies ` gan to fade ; No more he look 'd the charmer he had been ; person_3 when the court 's gay dames his face had seen ; They cried , Is this the beauty , we were told , Would captivate each heart , or young or old ? Why , he 's the jaundice ; ev ` ry view displays The mien of one , -- just fasted forty days ! WITH secret pleasure , this , person_1 learn 'd ; The person_6 , for his brother , risks discern 'd , Whose secret griefs were carefully conceal 'd , -LRB- person_3 these person_5 could never wish reveal 'd ; -RRB- Yet , spite of gloomy looks and hollow eyes , His graceful features pierc 'd the wan disguise , Which fail 'd to please , alone through want of life , Destroy 'd by thinking on a guilty wife.
THE god of love , in pity to our swain , At last revok 'd BLACK CARE 'S corroding reign ; For , doubtless , in his views he oft was cross 'd , While such a lover to the world was lost.
THE hero of our tale , at length , we find Was well rewarded : LOVE again proved kind ; For , musing as he walk 'd alone one day , person_3 pass 'd a gall ` ry , -LRB- held a secret way , -RRB- A voice in plaintive accents caught his ear , person_3 from the neighb ` ring closet came , 'twas clear : My dear Curtade , my only hope below , In vain I love ; -- you colder , colder grow ; While round no fair can boast so fine a face , person_3 numbers wish they might supply thy place , Whilst thou with some gay page prefer ` st a bet , Or game of dice with some low , vulgar set , person_4 meeting me alone ; and when just now person_4 thee I sent , with rage thou knit ` st thy brow , person_3 Dorimene , with ev ` ry curse abus 'd Then played again , since better that amus 'd , person_3 left me here , as if not worth a thought , Or thou didst scorn what I so fondly sought.
ASTONISHMENT , at once , our person_6 seiz 'd ; person_2 who 's the fair that thus her bosom eas 'd ? Or , who 's the gay Adonis , form 'd to bless ? You 'd try a day , and not the secret guess , The queen 's the belle : -- and , doubtless you will stare , The king 's own dwarf the idol of her care ! THE person_6 saw a crevice in the wood , Through which he took a peep from where he stood ; person_4 Dorimene our lovers left the key , Which she had dropt when lately forc 'd to flee , person_3 this person_5 pick 'd up , a lucky hit , Since he could use it when he best thought fit.
It seems , said he , I 'm not alone in name , person_3 since a prince so handsome is the same , Although a valet has supplied my place , Yet see , the queen prefers a dwarf 's embrace.
THIS thought consol 'd so well , -- his youthful rays Returned , and e ` en excelled his former days ; person_3 those who lately ridicul 'd his charms , Now anxious seem 'd to revel in his arms 'Twas who could have him , -- even prudes grew kind ; -- By many belles person_1 was resign 'd ; Though still the king retain 'd enough , 'twas seen ; -- person_2 now let us resume the dwarf and queen.
OUR person_6 , having satisfied his eyes , At length withdrew , confounded by surprise.
Who follows courts , must oft with care conceal , person_3 scarcely know what sight and ears reveal.
YET , by person_5 the king was lov 'd so well , What now he 'd seen he greatly wish 'd to tell ; person_2 , since to princes full respect is due , person_3 what concerns them , howsoever true , If thought displeasing , should not be dispos 'd In terms direct , but obviously dispos 'd , person_4 catch the mind , person_5 at ease detail 'd , From days of yore to those he now bewail 'd , The names of emp ` rors and of kings , whose brows , By wily wives , were crown 'd with leafless boughs ! person_3 who , without repining , view 'd their lot , Nor bad made worse , but thought things best forgot.
E ` en I , who now your majesty address , Continued he , am sorry to confess , The very day I left my native earth , person_4 wait upon a prince of royal birth , Was forced t ` acknowledge cuckoldom among The gods who rule the matrimonial throng , person_3 sacrifice thereto with aching heart Cornuted heads dire torments oft impart : THE tale he then detail 'd , that rais 'd his spleen ; person_3 what within the closet he had seen ; The king replied , I will not be so rude , person_4 question what so clearly you have view 'd ; Yet , since ` twere better full belief to gain , A glimpse of such a fact I should obtain , Pray bring me thither ; instantly our wight ; person_1 led , where both his ears and sight Full proof receiv 'd , which struck the prince with awe ; Who stood amaz 'd at what he heard and saw.
person_2 soon reflection 's all-convincing pow ' r Induced the king vexation to devour ; True courtier-like , who dire misfortunes braves , Feels sprouting horns , yet smiles at fools and knaves : Our wives , said he , a pretty trick have play 'd , person_3 shamefully the marriage bed betray 'd ; Let us the compliment return , my friend , person_3 round the country our amours extend ; person_2 , in our plan the better to succeed , Our names we 'll change ; no servants we shall need ; -- For your relation I desire to pass , So you 'll true freedom use ; then with a lass We more at ease shall feel , more pleasure gain ; Than if attended by my usual train.
JOCONDE with joy the king 's proposal heard ; On which the latter with his friend conferr 'd ; Said he , ` twere surely right to have a book , In which to place the names of those we hook , The whole arrang 'd according to their rank , person_3 I 'll engage no page remains a blank , person_2 ere we leave the range of our design , E ` en scrup ` lous dames shall to our wish incline , Our persons handsome , with engaging air , person_3 sprightly , brilliant wit no trifling share , -- ` person_0 strange , possessing such engaging charms , They should not tumble freely in our arms.
THE baggage ready , and the paper-book , our smart gallants the road together took , person_2 ` twould be vain to number their amours ; With beauties , Cupid favored them by scores ; Blessed , if only seen by either swain , person_3 doubly bless 'd who could attention gain : Nor wife of alderman , nor wife of mayor , Of justice , nor of governor was there , Who did not anxiously desire her name Might straight be entered in the book of fame ! Hearts , which before were thought as cold as ice , Now warm 'd at once and melted in a trice.
SOME infidel , I fancy , in my ear Would whisper-probabilities , I fear , Are rather wanting to support the fact ; However perfectly gallants may act , person_4 gain a heart requires full many a day If more be requisite I can not say ; ` Tis not my plan to dupe or young or old , person_2 such to me , howe'er the tale is told , person_3 Ariosto never truth forsakes ; Yet , if at ev ` ry step a writer takes , He 's closely question 'd as to time and place , He ne'er can end his work with easy grace.
person_4 those , from whom just credence I receive , Their tales I promise fully to believe.
AT length , when our advent ` rers round had play 'd , person_3 danc 'd with ev ` ry widow , wife , and maid , The full blown lily and the tender rose , person_1 said , though clearly I suppose , We can as many hearts securely link , As e ` er we like , yet better now , I think , person_4 stop a while in some delightful spot , person_3 that before satiety we 've got ; For true it is , with love as with our meat ; If we , variety of dishes eat , The doctors tell us inj ` ry will ensue , person_3 too much raking none can well pursue.
Let us some pleasing fair-one then engage , person_4 serve us both : -- enough she 'll prove I 'll wage.
JOCONDE at once replied , with all my heart , person_3 I a lady know who 'll take the part ; She 's beautiful ; possesses store of wit ; person_3 is the wife of one above a cit.
WITH such to meddle would be indiscreet , Replied the king , more charms we often meet , Beneath a chambermaid or laundress ' dress , Than any rich coquette can well possess.
Besides , with those , less form is oft requir 'd , While dames of quality must be admir 'd ; Their whims complied with , though suspicions rise ; person_3 ev ` ry hour produces fresh surprise , person_2 this sweet charmer of inferior birth A treasure proves ; a source of bliss on earth.
No trouble she to carry here nor there ; No balls she visits , and requires no care ; The conquest easy , we may talk or not ; The only difficulty we have got , Is how to find one , we may faithful view ; So let us choose a girl , to love quite new.
SINCE these , replied the YOUTH , your thoughts appear , What think you of our landlord 's daughter here ? That she 's a perfect virgin I 've no doubt , Nor can we find a chaster round about ; Her very doll more innocent wo n't prove , Than this sweet nymph design 'd with us to move.
THE scheme our prince 's approbation met ; The very girl , said he , I wish 'd to get ; This night be our attack ; and if her heart Surrenders when our wishes we impart , person_2 one perplexity will then remain ; ` Tis who her virgin favors shall obtain ? The honor 's all a whim , and I , as king , At once assuredly should claim this thing : The rest ` tis very easy to arrange ; As matters suit we presently can change.
IF ceremony ` twere , person_5 replied , All cavil then we quickly could decide ; Precedence would no doubt with you remain : person_2 this is quite another case ` tis plain ; person_3 equity demands that we agree , By lot to settle which the man shall be.
THE noble youths no arguments would spare , person_3 each contended for the spoiler 's care ; Howe'er person_5 obtained the lucky hit , person_3 first embrac 'd this fancied dainty bit.
THE girl who was the noble rival 's aim , That ev ` ning to the room for something came ; Our heroes gave her instantly a chair , person_3 lavished praises on her face and hair ; A diamond ring soon sparkled in her eyes ; Its pleasing pow ` rs at sight obtain 'd the prize.
THE bargain made , she , in the dead of night , When silence reign 'd and all was void of light , With careful steps their anxious wish obey 'd , person_3 ` tween them both , she presently was laid ; 'Twas Paradise they thought , where all is nice , person_3 our young spark believ 'd he broke the ice.
THE folly I forgive him ; -- ` tis in vain On this to reason -- idle to complain ; The WISE have oft been dup 'd it is confest , person_3 Solomon it seems among the rest.
person_2 gay person_5 felt nothing of the kind , A secret pleasure glow 'd within his mind ; He thought person_1 wond ` rous bliss had missed , person_3 that himself alone the fair had kiss 'd ; A clod howe'er , who liv 'd within the place , Had , prior to the person_6 , her embrace.
THE soft amour extended through the night , The girl was pleas 'd , and all proceeded right ; The foll ` wing night , the next , 'twas still the same ; Young Clod at length her coldness ` gan to blame ; person_3 as he felt suspicious of the act , He watch 'd her steps and verified the fact : A quarrel instantly between them rose ; Howe'er the fair , his anger to compose , person_3 favor not to lose , on honor vow 'd , That when the sparks were gone , and time allow 'd , She would oblige his craving , fierce desire ; -- person_4 which the village lad replied with ire : -- Pray what care I for any tavern guest , Of either sex ; to you I now protest , If I be not indulg 'd this very night , I 'll publish your amours in mere despite.
HOW can we manage it , replied the belle , I 'm quite distressed -- indeed the truth to tell , I 've promis 'd them this night to come again , person_3 if I fail , no doubt can then remain , person_2 I shall lose the ring , their pledg 'd reward , Which would , you know for me , be very hard.
TO you I wish the ring , replied young Clod , person_2 do they sleep in bed , or only nod ? Tell me , pray ; oh , said she , they sleep most sound ; person_2 then between them plac 'd shall I be found , person_3 while the one amidst Love 's frolicks sports , The other quiet lies , or Morpheus courts.
On hearing this the rustick lad proposed , person_4 visit her when others ' eyes were closed.
Oh ! never risk it , quickly she replied ; ` person_0 folly to attempt it by their side.
He answer 'd , never fear , but only leave The door ajar , and me they 'll not perceive.
THE door she left exactly as he said ; The spark arriv 'd , and then approach 'd the bed , -LRB- 'Twas near the foot , -RRB- then ` tween the sheets he slid , person_2 God knows how he lay , or what he did.
person_1 and person_5 ne'er smelt a rat , Nor ever dreamt of what their girl was at , At length when each had turn 'd and op 'd his eyes , Continual movement fill 'd him with surprise.
The monarch softly said : -- why how is this ? My friend has eaten something , for in bliss , He revels on , and truly much I fear , His health will show , it may be bought too dear.
THIS very sentiment person_5 bethought ; person_2 Clod a breathing moment having caught , Resum 'd his fun , and that so oft would seek : He gratified his wishes for a week ; Then watching carefully , he found once more ; Our noble heroes had begun to snore , On which he slyly took himself away , The road he came , and ere 'twas break of day ; The girl soon follow 'd , since she justly fear 'd , Still more fatigues : -- so off she quickly steer 'd , AT length when both the nobles were awake ; person_1 said , my friend you rest should take , ` person_0 better till to-morrow keep in bed , Since sleep , with such fatigues , of course has fled : You talk at random , cried the person_6 youth ; More rest I fancy you require in truth ; You 've led a pretty life throughout the night ; I ? said the king ; why I was weary quite , So long I waited ; you no respite gave , person_2 wholly seem 'd our little nymph t ' enslave ; At length to try if I from rage could keep , I turn 'd my back once more , and went to sleep.
If you had willingly the belle resign 'd , I was , my friend , to take a turn inclin 'd ; That had sufficed for me , since I , like you , Perpetual motion never can pursue.
YOUR raillery , the person_6 youth replied , Quite disconcerted , pray now lay aside , person_3 talk of something else ; you 've fully shown , That I 'm your vassal , and since you are grown So fond that you to keep the girl desire , E ` en wholly to yourself , why I 'll retire ; Do with her what you please , and we shall see , How long this furor will with you agree.
IT may , replied the king , for ever last , If ev ` ry night like this , I 'm doom 'd to fast.
SIRE , said person_5 , no longer let us thus , In terms of playful raillery discuss ; Since such your pleasure , send me from your view ; On this the youthful monarch angry grew , person_3 many words between the friends arose ; The presence of the nymph person_1 chose ; person_4 her they said , between us judge , sweet fair , person_3 every thing was stated then with care.
THE girl with blushing cheeks before them kneel 'd , person_3 the mysterious tale at once reveal 'd.
Our heroes laugh 'd ; the treach ` ry vile excus 'd ; person_3 gave the ring , which much delight diffus 'd ; person_4gether with a handsome sum of gold , Which soon a husband in her train enroll 'd , Who , for a maid , the pretty fair-one took ; person_3 then our heroes wand ` ring pranks forsook , With laurels cover 'd , which in future times , Will make them famous through the Western climes ; More glorious since , they only cost , we find , Those sweet ATTENTIONS pleasing to the MIND.
So many conquests proud of having made , person_3 over full the BOOK of -- those who 'd play 'd ; Said gay person_1 we will now , my friend , Return the shortest road and poaching end ; If false our mates , yet we 'll console ourselves , That many others have inconstant elves.
Perhaps , in things a change will be one day , person_3 only tender flames LOVE 'S torch display ; person_2 now it seems some evil star presides , person_3 Hymen 's flock the devil surely rides.
Besides , vile fiends the universe pervade , Whose constant aim is mortals to degrade , person_3 cheat us to our noses if they can , -LRB- Hell 's imps in human shape , disgrace to man ! -RRB- Perhaps these wretches have bewitch 'd our wives , person_3 made us fancy errors in their lives.
Then let us like good citizens , our days In future pass amidst domestick ways ; Our absence may indeed restore their hearts , For jealousy oft virtuous truths imparts.
IN this person_1 certainly believ 'd ; The friends return 'd , and kindly were receiv 'd ; A little scolding first assail 'd the ear ; person_2 blissful kisses banish 'd ev ` ry fear.
person_4 balls and banquets ALL themselves resigned ; Of dwarf or valet nothing more we find ; Each with his wife contentedly remained : -- ` Tis thus alone true happiness is gained"
It was quite late in the fall , and the weather had grown very cold.
Mrs.
Coon and her family had not left their home for several days ; but on this day she thought it would be pleasant to go out in the sunshine and get a breath of fresh air and a bite to eat.
person_0 was the only one of her children that was not asleep ; and he complained of being very hungry.
So Mrs.
Coon decided to take him with her.
The hunting was not very good.
There were no birds ' eggs at all to be found in the trees.
The river and the brook and the creek were all frozen over , so person_0 and his mother could not catch any fish.
And as for corn -- Farmer Green had long ago gathered the last ear of it.
person_0 wished that it was summertime.
But it only made him hungrier than ever , to think of all the good things to eat that summer brings.
He was feeling very unhappy when his mother said to him sharply -- `` Run up this tree ! Hurry , now ! Do n't ask any questions"
Now , person_0 did not always mind his mother as quickly as he might have.
But this time he saw that she had stopped and was sniffing the air as if there was something about it she did not like.
That was enough for person_0.
He scrambled up the nearest tree.
For he knew that his mother had discovered danger of some sort.
Mrs.
Coon followed close behind person_0.
And they had.
no sooner hidden in the branches than person_0 saw what it was that his mother had smelled.
It was Johnnie Green ! He passed right underneath the tree where they were perched.
And as Mrs.
Coon peeped down at him she shuddered and shivered and shook so hard that person_0 could n't help noticing it.
`` What 's the matter ?"
he asked , as soon as Johnnie Green was out of sight.
`` His cap !"
Mrs.
Coon exclaimed.
`` He is wearing a coon-skin cap !"
Now do you wonder that she was upset ? `` Do n't ever go near Farmer Green 's house ,"
she warned person_0.
`` You do n't want to be made into a cap , or a pair of gloves , or a coat , or anything like that , do you ?"
`` No , indeed , Mother !"
person_0 was quite sure that such an adventure would n't please him at all.
And he told himself right then and there that he would never go anywhere near Farmer Green 's house.
We shall see how well person_0 remembered.
That very afternoon person_0 Coon heard some very pleasant news.
It was Jasper Jay who told him.
Jasper Jay was a very noisy blue jay who lived in the neighborhood.
He did not go south with most of the other birds when the cold weather came.
He liked the winter and he was forever tearing about the woods , squalling and scolding at everybody.
He was a very noisy fellow.
Well ! when person_0 and his mother had reached home after their hunt , person_0 stayed out of doors.
He climbed to the top of a tall pine tree nearby and stretched himself along a limb , to enjoy the sunshine , which felt very good upon his broad back.
It was there that Jasper Jay found him and told him the pleasant news.
And person_0 was very glad to hear the news , because he was still hungry.
This is what Jasper Jay told person_0 : he told him that Farmer Green had as many as forty fat turkeys , which roosted every night in a spreading oak in Farmer Green 's front yard.
`` If I liked turkeys I would certainly go down there some night and get one ,"
said Jasper Jay"
THERE were once a little brother and a little sister , who loved each other with all their hearts.
Their own mother was , however , dead , and they had a step-mother , who was not kind to them , and secretly did everything she could to hurt them.
It so happened that the two were playing with other children in a meadow before the house , and there was a pond in the meadow which came up to one side of the house.
The children ran about it , and caught each other , and played at counting out.
`` Eneke Beneke , let me live , And I to thee my bird will give.
The little bird , it straw shall seek , The straw I 'll give to the cow to eat.
The pretty cow shall give me milk , The milk I 'll to the baker take.
The baker he shall bake a cake , The cake I 'll give unto the cat.
The cat shall catch some mice for that , The mice I 'll hang up in the smoke , And then you 'll see the snow"
They stood in a circle while they played this , and the one to whom the word snow fell , had to run away and all the others ran after him and caught him.
As they were running about so merrily the step-mother watched them from the window , and grew angry.
And as she understood arts of witchcraft she bewitched them both , and changed the little brother into a fish , and the little sister into a lamb.
Then the fish swam here and there about the pond and was very sad , and the lambkin walked up and down the meadow , and was miserable , and could not eat or touch one blade of grass.
Thus passed a long time , and then strangers came as visitors to the castle.
The false step-mother thought , `` This is a good opportunity ,"
and called the cook and said to him , `` Go and fetch the lamb from the meadow and kill it , we have nothing else for the visitors"
Then the cook went away and got the lamb , and took it into the kitchen and tied its feet , and all this it bore patiently.
When he had drawn out his knife and was whetting it on the door-step to kill the lamb , he noticed a little fish swimming backwards and forwards in the water , in front of the kitchen-sink and looking up at him.
This , however , was the brother , for when the fish saw the cook take the lamb away , it followed them and swam along the pond to the house ; then the lamb cried down to it , `` Ah , brother , in the pond so deep , How sad is my poor heart ! Even now the cook he whets his knife To take away my tender life"
The little fish answered , `` Ah , little sister , up on high How sad is my poor heart While in this pond I lie"
When the cook heard that the lambkin could speak and said such sad words to the fish down below , he was terrified and thought this could be no common lamb , but must be bewitched by the wicked woman in the house.
Then said he , `` Be easy , I will not kill thee ,"
and took another sheep and made it ready for the guests , and conveyed the lambkin to a good peasant woman , to whom he related all that he had seen and heard.
The peasant was , however , the very woman who had been foster-mother to the little sister , and she suspected at once who the lamb was , and went with it to a wise woman.
Then the wise woman pronounced a blessing over the lambkin and the little fish , by means of which they regained their human forms , and after this she took them both into a little hut in a great forest , where they lived alone , but were contented and happy"
There was once an old castle in the midst of a large and thick forest , and in it an old woman who was a witch dwelt all alone.
In the day-time she changed herself into a cat or a screech-owl , but in the evening she took her proper shape again as a human being.
She could lure wild beasts and birds to her , and then she killed and boiled and roasted them.
If any one came within one hundred paces of the castle he was obliged to stand still , and could not stir from the place until she bade him be free.
But whenever an innocent maiden came within this circle , she changed her into a bird , and shut her up in a wicker-work cage , and carried the cage into a room in the castle.
She had about seven thousand cages of rare birds in the castle.
Now , there was once a maiden who was called Jorinda , who was fairer than all other girls.
She and a handsome youth named Joringel had promised to marry each other.
They were still in the days of betrothal , and their greatest happiness was being together.
One day in order that they might be able to talk together in quiet they went for a walk in the forest.
`` Take care ,"
said Joringel , `` that you do not go too near the castle"
It was a beautiful evening ; the sun shone brightly between the trunks of the trees into the dark green of the forest , and the turtle-doves sang mournfully upon the young boughs of the birch-trees.
Jorinda wept now and then : she sat down in the sunshine and was sorrowful.
Joringel was sorrowful too ; they were as sad as if they were about to die.
Then they looked around them , and were quite at a loss , for they did not know by which way they should go home.
The sun was still half above the mountain and half set.
Joringel looked through the bushes , and saw the old walls of the castle close at hand.
He was horror-stricken and filled with deadly fear.
Jorinda was singing -- `` My little bird , with the necklace red , Sings sorrow , sorrow , sorrow , He sings that the dove must soon be dead , Sings sorrow , sor -- jug , jug , jug"
Joringel looked for Jorinda.
She was changed into a nightingale , and sang , `` jug , jug , jug"
A screech-owl with glowing eyes flew three times round about her , and three times cried , `` to-whoo , to-whoo , to-whoo !"
Joringel could not move : he stood there like a stone , and could neither weep nor speak , nor move hand or foot.
The sun had now set.
The owl flew into the thicket , and directly afterwards there came out of it a crooked old woman , yellow and lean , with large red eyes and a hooked nose , the point of which reached to her chin.
She muttered to herself , caught the nightingale , and took it away in her hand.
Joringel could neither speak nor move from the spot ; the nightingale was gone.
At last the woman came back , and said in a hollow voice , `` Greet thee , Zachiel.
If the moon shines on the cage , Zachiel , let him loose at once"
Then Joringel was freed.
He fell on his knees before the woman and begged that she would give him back his Jorinda , but she said that he should never have her again , and went away.
He called , he wept , he lamented , but all in vain , `` Ah , what is to become of me ?"
Joringel went away , and at last came to a strange village ; there he kept sheep for a long time.
He often walked round and round the castle , but not too near to it.
At last he dreamt one night that he found a blood-red flower , in the middle of which was a beautiful large pearl ; that he picked the flower and went with it to the castle , and that everything he touched with the flower was freed from enchantment ; he also dreamt that by means of it he recovered his Jorinda.
In the morning , when he awoke , he began to seek over hill and dale if he could find such a flower.
He sought until the ninth day , and then , early in the morning , he found the blood-red flower.
In the middle of it there was a large dew-drop , as big as the finest pearl.
Day and night he journeyed with this flower to the castle.
When he was within a hundred paces of it he was not held fast , but walked on to the door.
Joringel was full of joy ; he touched the door with the flower , and it sprang open.
He walked in through the courtyard , and listened for the sound of the birds.
At last he heard it.
He went on and found the room from whence it came , and there the witch was feeding the birds in the seven thousand cages.
When she saw Joringel she was angry , very angry , and scolded and spat poison and gall at him , but she could not come within two paces of him.
He did not take any notice of her , but went and looked at the cages with the birds ; but there were many hundred nightingales , how was he to find his Jorinda again ? Just then he saw the old woman quietly take away a cage with a bird in it , and go towards the door.
Swiftly he sprang towards her , touched the cage with the flower , and also the old woman.
She could now no longer bewitch any one ; and Jorinda was standing there , clasping him round the neck , and she was as beautiful as ever !"
There was once on a time a man who was called Frederick and a woman called person_0 , who had married each other and lived together as young married folks.
One day Frederick said , `` I will now go and plough , person_0 ; when I come back , there must be some roast meat on the table for hunger , and a fresh draught for thirst"
`` Just go , Frederick ,"
answered Kate , `` just go , I will have all ready for you"
Therefore when dinner-time drew near she got a sausage out of the chimney , put it in the frying-pan , put some butter to it , and set it on the fire.
The sausage began to fry and to hiss , person_0 stood beside it and held the handle of the pan , and had her own thoughts as she was doing it.
Then it occurred to her , `` While the sausage is getting done thou couldst go into the cellar and draw beer"
So she set the frying-pan safely on the fire , took a can , and went down into the cellar to draw beer.
The beer ran into the can and Kate watched it , and then she thought , `` Oh , dear ! The dog upstairs is not fastened up , it might get the sausage out of the pan.
Well thought of"
And in a trice she was up the cellar-steps again , but the Spitz had the sausage in its mouth already , and trailed it away on the ground.
But person_0 , who was not idle , set out after it , and chased it a long way into the field ; the dog , however , was swifter than person_0 and did not let the sausage journey easily , but skipped over the furrows with it.
`` What 's gone is gone !"
said Kate , and turned round , and as she had run till she was weary , she walked quietly and comfortably , and cooled herself.
During this time the beer was still running out of the cask , for Kate had not turned the tap.
And when the can was full and there was no other place for it , it ran into the cellar and did not stop until the whole cask was empty.
As soon as Kate was on the steps she saw the mischance.
`` Good gracious !"
she cried.
`` What shall I do now to stop Frederick knowing it !"
She thought for a while , and at last she remembered that up in the garret was still standing a sack of the finest wheat flour from the last fair , and she would fetch that down and strew it over the beer.
`` Yes ,"
said she , `` he who saves a thing when he ought , has it afterwards when he needs it ,"
and she climbed up to the garret and carried the sack below , and threw it straight down on the can of beer , which she knocked over , and Frederick 's draught swam also in the cellar.
`` It is all right ,"
said Kate , `` where the one is the other ought to be also ,"
and she strewed the meal over the whole cellar.
When it was done she was heartily delighted with her work , and said , `` How clean and wholesome it does look here !"
At mid-day home came Frederick : `` Now , wife , what have you ready for me ?"
`` Ah , Freddy ,"
she answered , `` I was frying a sausage for you , but whilst I was drawing the beer to drink with it , the dog took it away out of the pan , and whilst I was running after the dog , all the beer ran out , and whilst I was drying up the beer with the flour , I knocked over the can as well , but be easy , the cellar is quite dry again"
Said Frederick , `` Kate , Kate , you should not have done that ! to let the sausage be carried off and the beer run out of the cask , and throw out all our flour into the bargain !"
`` Indeed , Frederick , I did not know that , you should have told me"
The man thought , `` If my wife is like this , I must look after things more"
Now he had got together a good number of thalers which he changed into gold , and said to person_0 , `` Look , these are counters for playing games ; I will put them in a pot and bury them in the stable under the cow 's manger , but mind you keep away from them , or it will be the worse for you"
Said she , `` Oh , no , Frederick , I certainly will not go"
And when Frederick was gone some pedlars came into the village who had cheap earthen-bowls and pots , and asked the young woman if there was nothing she wanted to bargain with them for ? `` Oh , dear people ,"
said person_0 , `` I have no money and can buy nothing , but if you have any use for yellow counters I will buy of you"
`` Yellow counters , why not ? But just let us see them"
`` Then go into the stable and dig under the cow 's manger , and you will find the yellow counters.
I am not allowed to go there"
The rogues went thither , dug and found pure gold.
Then they laid hold of it , ran away , and left their pots and bowls behind in the house.
person_0 though she must use her new things , and as she had no lack in the kitchen already without these , she knocked the bottom out of every pot , and set them all as ornaments on the paling which went round about the house.
When Frederick came and saw the new decorations , he said , `` person_0 , what have you been about ?"
`` I have bought them , Frederick , for the counters which were under the cow 's manger.
I did not go there myself , the pedlars had to dig them out for themselves"
`` Ah , wife ,"
said Frederick , `` what have you done ? Those were not counters , but pure gold , and all our wealth ; you should not have done that"
`` Indeed , Frederick ,"
said she , `` I did not know that , you should have forewarned me"
person_0 stood for a while and bethought to herself ; then she said , `` Listen , Frederick , we will soon get the gold back again , we will run after the thieves"
`` Come , then ,"
said Frederick , `` we will try it ; but take with you some butter and cheese that we may have something to eat on the way"
`` Yes , Frederick , I will take them"
They set out , and as Frederick was the better walker , person_0 followed him.
`` It is to my advantage ,"
thought she , `` when we turn back I shall be a little way in advance"
Then she came to a hill where there were deep ruts on both sides of the road.
`` There one can see ,"
said person_0 , `` how they have torn and skinned and galled the poor earth , it will never be whole again as long as it lives ,"
and in her heart 's compassion she took her butter and smeared the ruts right and left , that they might not be so hurt by the wheels , and as she was thus bending down in her charity , one of the cheeses rolled out of her pocket down the hill.
Said person_0 , `` I have made my way once up here , I will not go down again ; another may run and fetch it back"
So she took another cheese and rolled it down.
But the cheeses did not come back , so she let a third run down , thinking.
`` Perhaps they are waiting for company , and do not like to walk alone"
As all three stayed away she said , `` I do not know what that can mean , but it may perhaps be that the third has not found the way , and has gone wrong , I will just send the fourth to call it"
But the fourth did no better than the third.
Then person_0 was angry , and threw down the fifth and sixth as well , and these were her last.
She remained standing for some time watching for their coming , but when they still did not come , she said , `` Oh , you are good folks to send in search of death , you stay a fine long time away ! Do you think I will wait any longer for you ? I shall go my way , you may run after me ; you have younger legs than I"
person_0 went on and found Frederick , who was standing waiting for her because he wanted something to eat.
`` Now just let us have what you have brought with you ,"
said he.
She gave him the dry bread.
`` Where have you the butter and the cheeses ?"
asked the man.
`` Ah , Freddy ,"
said person_0 , `` I smeared the cart-ruts with the butter and the cheeses will come soon ; one ran away from me , so I sent the others after to call it"
Said Frederick , `` You should not have done that , person_0 , to smear the butter on the road , and let the cheeses run down the hill !"
`` Really , Frederick , you should have told me"
Then they ate the dry bread together , and Frederick said , `` person_0 , did you make the house safe when you came away ?"
`` No , Frederick , you should have told me to do it before"
`` Then go home again , and make the house safe before we go any farther , and bring with you something else to eat.
I will wait here for you"
person_0 went back and thought , `` Frederick wants something more to eat , he does not like butter and cheese , so I will take with me a handkerchief full of dried pears and a pitcher of vinegar for him to drink"
Then she bolted the upper half of the door fast , but unhinged the lower door , and took it on her back , believing that when she had placed the door in security the house must be well taken care of.
person_0 took her time on the way , and thought , `` Frederick will rest himself so much the longer"
When she had once reached him she said , `` Here is the house-door for you , Frederick , and now you can take care of the house yourself"
`` Oh , heavens ,"
said he , `` what a wise wife I have ! She takes the under-door off the hinges that everything may run in , and bolts the upper one.
It is now too late to go back home again , but since you have brought the door here , you shall just carry it farther"
`` I will carry the door , Frederick , but the dried pears and the vinegar-jug will be too heavy for me , I will hang them on the door , it may carry them"
And now they went into the forest , and sought the rogues , but did not find them.
At length as it grew dark they climbed into a tree and resolved to spend the night there.
Scarcely , however , had they sat down at the top of it than the rascals came thither who carry away with them what does not want to go , and find things before they are lost.
They sat down under the very tree in which Frederick and person_0 were sitting , lighted a fire , and were about to share their booty.
Frederick got down on the other side and collected some stones together.
Then he climbed up again with them , and wished to throw them at the thieves and kill them.
The stones , however , did not hit them , and the knaves cried , `` It will soon be morning , the wind is shaking down the fir-apples"
person_0 still had the door on her back , and as it pressed so heavily on her , she thought it was the fault of the dried pears , and said , `` Frederick , I must throw the pears down"
`` No , person_0 , not now ,"
he replied , `` they might betray us"
`` Oh , but , Frederick , I must ! They weigh me down far too much"
`` Do it , then , and be hanged !"
Then the dried pears rolled down between the branches , and the rascals below said , `` The leaves are falling"
A short time afterwards , as the door was still heavy , person_0 said , `` Ah , Frederick , I must pour out the vinegar"
`` No , person_0 , you must not , it might betray us"
`` Ah , but , Frederick , I must , it weighs me down far too much"
`` Then do it and be hanged !"
So she emptied out the vinegar , and it besprinkled the robbers.
They said amongst themselves , `` The dew is already falling"
At length person_0 thought , `` Can it really be the door which weighs me down so ?"
and said , `` Frederick , I must throw the door down"
`` No , not now , person_0 , it might discover us"
`` Oh , but , Frederick , I must.
It weighs me down far too much"
`` Oh , no , person_0 , do hold it fast"
`` Ah , Frederick , I am letting it fall !"
`` Let it go , then , in the devil 's name"
Then it fell down with a violent clatter , and the rascals below cried , `` The devil is coming down the tree !"
and they ran away and left everything behind them.
Early next morning , when the two came down they found all their gold again , and carried it home.
When they were once more at home , Frederick said , `` And now , person_0 , you , too , must be industrious and work"
`` Yes , Frederick , I will soon do that , I will go into the field and cut corn"
When person_0 got into the field , she said to herself , `` Shall I eat before I cut , or shall I sleep before I cut ? Oh , I will eat first"
Then person_0 ate and eating made her sleepy , and she began to cut , and half in a dream cut all her clothes to pieces , her apron , her gown , and her shift.
When person_0 awoke again after a long sleep she was standing there half-naked , and said to herself , `` Is it I , or is it not I ? Alas , it is not I"
In the meantime night came , and person_0 ran into the village , knocked at her husband 's window , and cried , `` Frederick"
`` What is the matter ?"
`` I should very much like to know if person_0 is in ?"
`` Yes , yes ,"
replied Frederick , `` she must be in and asleep"
Said she ,"
` Tis well , then I am certainly at home already ,"
and ran away.
Outside person_0 found some vagabonds who were going to steal.
Then she went to them and said , `` I will help you to steal"
The rascals thought that she knew the situation of the place , and were willing.
person_0 went in front of the houses , and cried , `` Good folks , have you anything ? We want to steal"
The thieves thought to themselves , `` That 's a fine way of doing things ,"
and wished themselves once more rid of person_0.
Then they said to her , `` Outside the village the pastor has some turnips in the field.
Go there and pull up some turnips for us"
person_0 went to the ground , and began to pull them up , but was so idle that she did not gather them together.
Then a man came by , saw her , and stood still and thought that it was the devil who was thus rooting amongst the turnips.
He ran away into the village to the pastor , and said , `` Mr.
Pastor , the devil is in your turnip-ground , rooting up turnips"
`` Ah , heavens ,"
answered the pastor , `` I have a lame foot , I can not go out and drive him away"
Said the man , `` Then I will carry you on my back ,"
and he carried him out on his back.
And when they came to the ground , person_0 arose and stood up her full height.
`` Ah , the devil !"
cried the pastor , and both hurried away , and in his great fright the pastor could run better with his lame foot than the man who had carried him on his back could do with his sound one"
Seven Swabians were once together.
The first was person_0 ; the second , Jackli ; the third , Marli ; the fourth , Jergli ; the fifth , Michal ; the sixth , Hans ; the seventh , Veitli : all seven had made up their minds to travel about the world to seek adventures , and perform great deeds.
But in order that they might go in security and with arms in their hands , they thought it would be advisable that they should have one solitary , but very strong , and very long spear made for them.
This spear all seven of them took in their hands at once ; in front walked the boldest and bravest , and that was person_0 ; all the others followed in a row , and Veitli was the last.
Then it came to pass one day in the hay-making month -LRB- July -RRB- , when they had walked a long distance , and still had a long way to go before they reached the village where they were to pass the night , that as they were in a meadow in the twilight a great beetle or hornet flew by them from behind a bush , and hummed in a menacing manner.
person_0 was so terrified that he all but dropped the spear , and a cold perspiration broke out over his whole body.
`` Hark ! hark !"
cried he to his comrades , `` Good heavens ! I hear a drum"
Jackli , who was behind him holding the spear , and who perceived some kind of a smell , said , `` Something is most certainly going on , for I taste powder and matches"
At these words person_0 began to take to flight , and in a trice jumped over a hedge , but as he just happened to jump on to the teeth of a rake which had been left lying there after the hay-making , the handle of it struck against his face and gave him a tremendous blow.
`` Oh dear ! Oh dear !"
screamed person_0.
`` Take me prisoner ; I surrender ! I surrender !"
The other six all leapt over , one on the top of the other , crying , `` If you surrender , I surrender too ! If you surrender , I surrender too !"
At length , as no enemy was there to bind and take them away , they saw that they had been mistaken , and in order that the story might not be known , and they be treated as fools and ridiculed , they all swore to each other to hold their peace about it until one of them accidentally spoke of it.
Then they journeyed onwards.
The second danger which they survived can not be compared with the first.
Some days afterwards , their path led them through a fallow-field where a hare was sitting sleeping in the sun.
Her ears were standing straight up , and her great glassy eyes were wide open.
All of them were alarmed at the sight of the horrible wild beast , and they consulted together as to what it would be the least dangerous to do.
For if they were to run away , they knew that the monster would pursue and swallow them whole.
So they said , `` We must go through a great and dangerous struggle.
Boldly ventured , is half won ,"
and all seven grasped the spear , person_0 in front , and Veitli behind.
person_0 was always trying to keep the spear back , but Veitli had become quite brave while behind , and wanted to dash forward and cried , `` Strike home , in every Swabian 's name , Or else I wish ye may be lame"
But Hans knew how to meet this , and said , `` Thunder and lightning , it 's fine to prate , But for dragon-hunting thou ` rt aye too late"
Michal cried , `` Nothing is wanting , not even a hair , Be sure the Devil himself is there"
Then it was Jergli 's turn to speak , `` If it be not , it 's at least his mother , Or else it 's the Devil 's own step-brother"
And now Marli had a bright thought , and said to Veitli , `` Advance , Veitli , advance , advance , And I behind will hold the lance"
Veitli , however , did not attend to that , and Jackli said , `` Tis person_1 's place the first to be , No one deserves that honor but he"
Then person_0 plucked up his courage , and said , gravely , `` Then let us boldly advance to the fight , And thus we shall show our valor and might"
Hereupon they all together set on the dragon.
person_0 crossed himself and prayed for God 's assistance , but as all this was of no avail , and he was getting nearer and nearer to the enemy , he screamed `` Oho ! oho ! ho ! ho ! ho !"
in the greatest anguish.
This awakened the hare , which in great alarm darted swiftly away.
When person_0 saw her thus flying from the field of battle , he cried in his joy.
`` Quick , Veitli , quick , look there , look there , The monster 's nothing but a hare !"
But the Swabian allies went in search of further adventures , and came to the Moselle , a mossy , quiet , deep river , over which there are few bridges , and which in many places people have to cross in boats.
As the seven Swabians did not know this , they called to a man who was working on the opposite side of the river , to know how people contrived to get across.
The distance and their way of speaking made the man unable to understand what they wanted , and he said `` What ? what ?"
in the way people speak in the neighborhood of Treves.
person_0 thought he was saying , `` Wade , wade through the water ,"
and as he was the first , began to set out and went into the moselle.
It was not long before he sank in the mud and the deep waves which drove against him , but his hat was blown on the opposite shore by the wind , and a frog sat down beside it , and croaked `` Wat , wat , wat"
The other six on the opposite side heard that , and said , `` Oho , comrades , person_0 is calling us ; if he can wade across , why can not we ?"
So they all jumped into the water together in a great hurry , and were drowned , and thus one frog took the lives of all six of them , and not one of the Swabian allies ever reached home again"
THOSE who in fables deal , bestow at ease Both names and titles , freely as they please.
It costs them scarcely any thing , we find.
person_3 each is nymph or shepherdess designed ; Some e ` en are goddesses , that move below , From whom celestial bliss of course must flow.
THIS Horace followed , with superior art : -- If , to the trav ` ller 's bed , with throbbing heart , The chambermaid approached , 'twas Ilia found , Or fair Egeria , or some nymph renowned.
GOD , in his goodness , made , one lovely day , Apollo , who directs the lyrick lay , person_3 gave him pow ` rs to call and name at will , Like father Adam , with primordial skill.
Said he , go , names bestow that please the ear ; In ev ` ry word let sweetest sound appear.
This ancient law then proves , by right divine , WE oft are sponsors to the royal line.
WHEN pleasing tales and fables I endite , I , who in humble verse presume to write , May surely use this privilege of old , person_3 , to my fancy , appellations mould.
If I , instead of person_0 , should Sylvia say , person_3 Master Thomas -LRB- when the case I weigh -RRB- Should change to Adamas , the druid sage , Must I a fine or punishment engage ? No , surely not : -- at present I shall choose person_0 and the Parson for my tale to use.
WITHIN her village , person_0 was thought the belle , person_3 ev ` ry other charmer to excel.
As near a river once she chanced to stray , She saw a youth in Nature 's pure array , Who bathed at ease within the gliding stream ; The girl was brisk , and worthy of esteem , Her eyes were pleased ; the object gave delight ; Not one defect could be produced in sight ; Already , by the shepherdess adored , If with the belle to pleasing flights he 'd soared , The god of love had all they wished concealed None better know what should not be revealed.
person_0 nothing feared : the willows were her shade , Which , like Venetian blinds , a cov ` ring made ; Her eyes , howe'er , across had easy view , person_3 , o ` er the youth , each beauty could pursue.
SHE back four paces drew , at first , through shame ; Then , led by LOVE , eight others forward came ; person_1 scruples still arose that ardor foiled , person_3 nearly ey ` ry thing had truly spoiled.
person_0 had a conscience pure as holy fire ; person_1 how could she abstain from soft desire ? If , in the bosom chance a flame should raise , Is there a pow ` r can then subdue the blaze ? At first these inclinations she withstood ; person_1 doubting soon , how those of flesh and blood Could sins commit by stepping in advance , She took her seat upon the green expanse , person_3 there attentively the lad observed , With eyes that scarcely from him ever swerved.
PERHAPS you 've seen , from Nature , drawings made ? Some Eve , or Adam , artists then persuade , In birth-attire to stand within their view , While they with care and taste each trait pursue ; person_3 , like our shepherdess , their stations take , A perfect semblance ev ` ry way to make.
ANNE in her mem ` ry now his image placed ; Each line and feature thoroughly she traced , person_3 even now the fair would there remain , If person_2 -LRB- so was called this youthful swain -RRB- Had not the water left ; when she retired , Though scarcely twenty steps from him admired , Who , more alert than usual then appeared , person_3 , by the belle , in silence was revered.
WHEN such sensations once were in the breast , Love there we may believe would hardly rest.
THE favors person_0 reserved he thought his own , Though expectations oft away have flown.
The more of this I think , the less I know ; Perhaps one half our bliss to chance we owe ! BE this as ` twill , the conscientious person_0 Would nothing venture to regale her man ; Howe'er , she stated what had raised her fear , person_3 ev ` ry thing that made her persevere.
WHEN Easter came , new difficulties rose Then , in confession , ALL she should disclose.
person_0 , passing peccadillos in review , This case aside , as an intruder threw ; person_1 parson Thomas made her all relate ; person_3 ev ` ry circumstance most clearly state ; That he , by knowing fully each defect , Might punishment accordingly direct , In which no father-confessor should err , Who absolution justly would confer.
The parson much his penitent abused ; Said he , with sensual views to be amused , Is such a sin , ` tis scarcely worse to steal ; The sight is just the same as if you feel.
HOWE ` ER , the punishment that he imposed Was nothing great : -- too slight to be disclosed ; Enough to say , that in the country round , The father-confessors , who there abound , As in our own , -LRB- perhaps in ev ` ry part , -RRB- Have devotees , who , when they ought to smart , A tribute pay , according to their lot , person_3 thus indulgences are often got.
THIS tribute to discharge the current year , Much troubled person_0 , and filled her breast with fear , When person_2 , fishing , chanced a pike to hook , person_3 gave it to his dear at once to cook , Who , quite delighted , hastened to the priest , person_3 begged his rev ` rence on the fish to feast.
The parson with the present much was pleased ; A tap upon the shoulder care appeased ; person_3 with a smile he to the bringer said This fish , with trifles on the table spread , Will all complete ; 'twas holyday we find , When other clergy with our rector dined.
Will you still more oblige , the parson cried , person_3 let the fish at home by you be fried ? Then bring it here : -- my servant 's very new , person_3 ca n't attempt to cook as well as you.
person_0 hastened back ; meanwhile the priests arrived , Much noise , and rout of course , once these were hived ; Wines from the vault were brought without delay ; Each of the quality would something say.
THE dinner served ; the dean at table placed ; Their conversation various points embraced ; To state the whole would clearly endless be ; In this no doubt the reader will agree.
They changed and changed , and healths went round and round ; No time for scandal while such cheer was found ; The first and second course away were cleared , Dessert served up , yet still no pike appeared.
The dinner o ` er without th ' expected dish , Or even a shadow of the promised fish.
When person_2 learned the present person_0 had made , His wish , to have it canceled , with her weighed.
The rector was surprised , you may suppose , person_3 , soon as from the table all arose , He went to person_0 , and called her fool and knave , person_3 , in his wrath , could scarcely secrets wave , person_1 nearly her reproached the bathing scene ; What , treat , said he , your priest like base and mean ? ANNE archly answered , with expression neat : -- The sight is just the same as if you eat !"
THE husband 's dire mishap , and silly maid , In ev ` ry age , have proved the fable 's aid ; The fertile subject never will be dry : ` Tis inexhaustible , you may rely.
No man 's exempt from evils such as these : -- Who thinks himself secure , but little sees.
One laughs at sly intrigues who , ere ` tis long , May , in his turn , be sneered at by the throng : With such vicissitudes , to be cast down , Appears rank nonsense worthy Folly 's crown.
He , whose adventures I 'm about to write , In his mischances , -- found what gave delight.
A CERTAIN Citizen , with fortune large , When settled with a handsome wife in charge , Not long attended for the marriage fruit : The lady soon put matters ` yond dispute ; Produced a girl at first , and then a boy , To fill th ' expecting parent 's breast with joy.
THE son , when grown of size , a tutor had , No pedant rude , with Greek and Latin mad , But young and smart , a master too of arts , Particularly learned in what imparts , The gentle flame , the pleasing poignant pang , That Ovid formerly so sweetly sang.
Some knowledge of good company he 'd got ; A charming voice and manner were his lot ; person_0 if we may disclose the mystick truth , 'Twas Cupid who preceptor made the youth.
He with the brother solely took a place , That better he the sister 's charms might trace ; person_0 under this disguise he fully gained What he desired , so well his part he feigned : An able master , or a lover true , To teach or sigh , whichever was in view , So thoroughly he could attention get , Success alike in ev ` ry thing he met.
IN little time the boy could construe well The odes of Horace : -- Virgil 's fable tell ; person_0 she whose beauty caught the tutor 's eyes , A perfect mistress got of heaving sighs.
So oft she practiced what the master taught , Her stomach feeble grew , whate'er was sought ; person_0 strange suspicions of the cause arose , Which Time at length was driven to disclose.
MOST terribly the father raged and swore ; Our learned master , frightened , left the door , The lady wished to take the youth for life ; The spark desired to make the girl his wife ; Both had the Hymeneal knot in view , person_0 mutual soft affection fondly knew.
At present love is little more than name : In matrimony , gold 's the only aim.
The belle was rich , while he had nothing got ; For him 'twas great : -- for her a narrow lot.
O DIRE corruption , age of wretched ways ! What strange caprice such management displays ! Shall we permit this fatal pow ` r to reign ? Base int ` rest 's impulse : hideous modern stain ; The curse of ev ` ry tender soft delight , That charms the soul and fascinates the sight.
BUT truce to moral ; let 's our tale resume ; The daughter scared ; the father in a fume ; What could be done the evil to repair , person_0 hide the sad misfortune of the fair ? What method seek ? -- They married her in haste ; But not to him who had the belle debased , For reasons I 've sufficiently detailed ; To gain her hand a certain wight prevailed , Who store of riches relished far above The charms of beauty , warmed with fondest love.
Save this the man might well enough be thought : In family and wealth just what was sought ; But whether fool or not , I can not trace , Since he was unacquainted with the case ; person_0 if he 'd known it , was the bargain bad ? Full twenty thousand pounds he with her had A sprightly youthful wife to ease his care , person_0 with him ev ` ry luxury to share.
HOW many tempted by the golden ore , Have taken wives whose slips they know before ; person_0 this good man the lady chaste believed , So truly well she managed and deceived.
But when four months had passed , the fair-one showed.
How very much she to her lessons owed ; A little girl arrived : the husband stared Cried he , what father of a child declared ! The time 's too short : four months ! I 'm taken in ! A family should not so soon begin.
AWAY he to the lady 's father flew , person_0 of his shame a horrid picture drew ; Proposed to be divorced : much rage disclosed ; The parent smiled and said , pray be composed ; Speak not so loud : we may be overheard , person_0 privacy is much to be preferred.
A son-in-law , like you , I once appeared , person_0 similar misfortune justly feared ; Complaint I made , and mentioned a divorce ; Of heat and rage the ordinary course.
THE father of my wife , who 's now no more , -LRB- Heav ` n guard his soul , the loss I oft deplore , -RRB- A prudent honest man as any round , To calm my mind , a nice specifick found ; The pill was rather bitter , I admit ; But gilding made it for the stomach fit , Which he knew how to manage very well : No doctor in it him could e ` er excel ; To satisfy my scruples he displayed A CONTRACT -LRB- duly stamped and ably made -RRB- , Four thousand to secure , which he had got , On similar occasion for a blot ; His lady 's father gave it to efface Domestick diff ` rences and like disgrace : With this my spouse 's fortune he increased ; person_0 instantly my dire complaining ceased.
From family to family the deed Should pass , ` twill often prove a useful meed ; I kept it for the purpose : -- do the same Your daughter , married , may have equal blame.
On this the son-in-law the bond received , person_0 , with a bow , departed much relieved.
MAY Heav ` n preserve from trouble those who find , At cheaper rate , to be consoled inclined"
NO easy matter ` tis to hold , Against its owner 's will , the fleece Who troubled by the itching smart person_2 Cupid 's irritating dart , Eager awaits some Jason bold person_3 grant release.
E ` en dragon huge , or flaming steer , When Jason 's loved will cause no fear.
Duennas , grating , bolt and lock , All obstacles can naught avail ; Constraint is but a stumbling block ; For youthful ardor must prevail.
Girls are precocious nowadays , Look at the men with ardent gaze , And longings ' an infinity ; Trim misses but just in their teens By day and night devise the means person_3 dull with subtlety to sleep The Argus vainly set to keep person_4 safety their virginity.
Sighs , smiles , false tears , they 'll fain employ An artless lover to decoy.
I 'll say no more , but leave to you , Friend reader , to pronounce if true What I 've asserted when you have heard How artful person_1 , caged her bird.
IN a small town in Italy , The name of which I do not know , Young person_1 dwelt , gay , pretty , free , Varambon 's child.
-- Boccacio Omits her mother 's name , which not person_3 you or me imports a jot.
At fourteen years our person_1 's charms Were all that could be wished -- plump arms , A swelling bosom ; on her cheeks Roses ' and lilies ' mingled streaks , A sparkling eye -- all these , you know , Speak well for what is found below.
With such advantages as these No virgin sure could fail to please , Or lack a lover ; nor did person_5 ; But little time she had to wait ; One soon appeared to seal her fate.
Young person_0 saw her , loved her , wooed her -- What swain I ask could have withstood her ? Soft words , caresses , tender glances , The battery of love 's advances , Soon lit up in the maiden 's breast The flame which his own heart possessed , Soon growing to a burning fire person_2 love and mutual desire.
Desire for what ? My reader knows , Or if he does not may suppose , And not be very wond ` rous wise.
When youthful lovers mingle sighs , Believe me , friend , I am not wrong , For one thing only do they long.
One check deferred our lover 's bliss , A thing quite natural , 'twas this : The mother loved so well her child That , fearful she might be beguiled , She would not let her out of sight , A single minute , day or night.
At mother 's apron string all day person_5 whiled the weary hours away , And shared her bed all night.
Such love person_4 parents we must all approve , Though Catherine , I must confess , person_4 place of so much tenderness More liberty would have preferred.
person_3 little girls maternal care person_4 such excess is right and fair , But for a lass of fourteen years , For whom one need have no such fears , Solicitude is quite absurd , And only bores her.
person_1 could No moment steal , do what she would , person_3 see her person_0.
Sorely vexed She was , and he still more perplexed.
person_4 spite of all he might devise A squeeze , a kiss , quick talk of eyes Was all he could obtain , no more.
Bread butterless , a sanded floor , It seemed no better.
Joy like this Could not suffice , more sterling bliss Our lovers wished , nor would stop short Till they 'd obtained the thing they sought.
And thus it came about.
One day By chance they met , alone , away From jealous parents.
`` What 's the use ;"
Said person_0 , `` of all our affection ? `` person_2 love it is a rank abuse , `` And yields me nothing but dejection `` I see you without seeing you , `` Must always look another way , `` And if we meet I dare not stay , `` Must ev ` ry inclination smother.
`` I ca n't believe your love is true ; `` I 'll never own you really kind `` Unless some certain means you find `` For us to meet without your mother"
person_5 answered : `` Were it not too plain `` How warm my love , another strain `` I would employ.
person_4 converse vain `` Let us not waste our moments few ; `` But think what it were best to do"
`` If you will please me ,"
Robert said , `` You must contrive to change your bed , `` And have it placed -- well , let me see -- `` Moved to the outer gallery , `` Where you will be alone and free.
`` We there can meet and chat at leisure `` While others sleep , nor need we fear , `` person_2 merry tales I have a treasure `` person_3 tell , but can not tell them here"
person_5 smiled at this for she knew well What sort of tales he had to tell ; But promised she would do her best And soon accomplish his request.
It was not easy , you 'll admit , But love lends foolish maidens wit ; And this is how she managed it.
The whole night long she kept awake , Snored , sighed and kicked , as one possessed , That parents both could get not rest , So much she made the settle shake.
This is not strange.
A longing girl , With thoughts of sweetheart in her head , person_4 bed all night will sleepless twirl.
A flea is in her ear , ` tis said.
The morning broke.
person_2 fleas and heat person_1 complained.
`` Let me entreat , `` O mother , I may put my bed `` Out in the gallery ,"
she said ,"
` Tis cooler there , and Philomel `` Who warbles in the neigh ` bring dell `` Will solace me"
Ready consent The simple mother gave , and went person_3 seek her spouse.
`` Our person_5 , my dear , `` Will change her bed that she may hear `` The nightingale , and sleep more cool"
`` Wife ,"
said the good man , `` You 're a fool , `` And person_5 too with her nightingale ; `` Do n't tell me such a foolish tale.
`` She must remain.
No doubt to-night `` Will fresher be.
I sleep all right `` person_4 spite of heat , and so can she.
`` Is she more delicate than me ?"
person_4censed was person_5 by this denial After so promising a trial , Nor would be beat , but firmly swore person_3 give more trouble than before.
That night again no wink she slept But groaned and fretted , sighed and wept , Upon her couch so tossed and turned , The anxious mother quite concerned Again her husband sought.
`` Our person_5 `` person_3 me seems greatly changed of late.
`` You are unkind ,"
she said to him , `` person_3 thwart her simple , girlish whim.
`` Why may she not her bed exchange , `` person_4 naught will it the house derange ? `` Placed in the passage she 's as near `` person_3 us as were she lying here.
`` You do not love your child , and will `` With your unkindness make her ill"
`` Pray cease ,"
the husband cried , `` to scold `` And take your whim.
I ne'er could hold `` My own against a screaming wife ; `` You 'll drive me mad , upon my life.
`` Her belly-full our person_5 may get `` person_2 nightingale or of linnet"
The thing was settled.
person_5 obeyed , And in a trice her bed was made , And lover signalled.
Who shall say How long to both appeared that day , That tedious day ! But night arrived And person_0 too ; he had contrived By ladder , and a servant 's aid , person_3 reach the chamber of the maid.
person_3 tell how often they embraced , How changed in form their tenderness , Would lead to nothing but a waste person_2 time , my readers will confess.
The longest , most abstruse discourse Would lack precision , want the force Their youthful ardor to portray.
person_3 understand there 's but one way -- Experience.
The nightingale Sang all night long his pleasing tale , And though he made but little noise , The lass was satisfied.
Her joys So exquisite that she averred The other nightingale , the bird Who warbles to the woods his bliss , Was but an ass compared with this.
But nature could not long maintain person_2 efforts such as these the strain ; Their forces spent , the lovers twain person_4 fond embrace fell fast asleep Just as the dawn began to peep : The father as he left his bed By curiosity was led person_3 learn if person_1 soundly slept , And softly to the passage crept.
`` I 'll see the influence ,"
he said , `` person_2 nightingale and change of bed"
With bated breath , upon tip toes , Close to the couch he cautious goes Where person_1 lay in calm repose.
Excessive heat had made all clothes Unbearable.
The sleeping pair Had cast them off , and lay as bare As our first happy parents were person_4 Paradise.
But in the place person_2 apple , in her willing hand person_5 firmly grasp the magic wand Which served to found the human race , The which to name were a disgrace , Though dames the most refined employ it ; Desire it , and much enjoy it , If good Catullus tells us true.
The father scarce believed his view , But keeping in his bosom pent His anger , to his wife he went , And said , `` Get up , and come with me.
`` At present I can plainly see `` Why person_5 had such anxiety `` person_3 hear the nightingale , for she `` person_3 catch the bird so well has planned `` That now she holds him in her hand"
The mother almost wept for glee.
`` A nightingale , oh ! let me see.
`` How large is he , and can he sing , `` And will he breed , the pretty thing ? `` How did she catch him , clever child ?"
Despite his grief the good man smiled.
`` Much more than you expect you 'll see.
`` But hold your tongue , and come with me ; `` For if your chattering is heard , `` Away will fly the timid bird ; `` And you will spoil our daughter 's game"
Who was surprised ? It was the dame.
Her anger burst into a flame As she the nightingale espied Which person_1 held ; she could have cried , And scolded , called her nasty slut , And brazen hussey , bitch , and -- but Her husband stopped her.
`` What 's the use `` person_2 all your scolding and abuse ? `` The mischief 's done , in vain may you `` From now till doomsday fret and stew , `` Misfortune done you ca n't undo , `` But something may be done to mend : `` For notary this instant send , `` Bid holy priest and mayor attend.
`` For their good offices I wait `` person_3 set this nasty matter straight"
As he discoursed , person_0 awoke , And seeing that the sun had broke , These troubled words to person_1 spoke `` Alas , my love , ` tis broad day light , `` How can I now effect my flight ?"
`` All will go well ,"
rejoined the sire , `` I will not grumble , my just ire `` Were useless here ; you have committed `` A wrong of which to be acquitted , `` person_0 , there is one only way , `` My child you wed without delay.
`` She 's well brought up , young , full of health `` If fortune has not granted wealth , `` Her beauty you do not deny , `` So wed her , or prepare to die"
person_3 hesitate in such a case Would surely have been out of place The girl he loved to take to wife , Or in his prime to lose his life , The point in truth needs no debate , Nor did our person_0 hesitate.
Besides , the most supreme delight person_2 life he 'd tasted one short night , But one , in lovely person_1 's arms ; Could he so soon resign her charms ! While person_0 , pleased with his escape From what he feared an awkward scrape , Was dreaming of his happy choice , Our person_1 , by her father 's voice Awakened , from her hand let go The cause of all her joy and woe , And round her naked beauties wound The sheet picked up from off the ground : Meanwhile the notary appears person_3 put an end to all their fears.
They wrote , they signed , the sealed -- and thus The wedding ended free from fuss.
They left the happy couple there.
His satisfaction to declare , Thus spoke their father to the pair : `` Take courage , children , have no care ; `` The nightingale in cage is pent , `` May sing now to his heart 's content"
When Adam and person_0 were driven out of Paradise , they were compelled to build a house for themselves on unfruitful ground , and eat their bread in the sweat of their brow.
Adam dug up the land , and person_0 span.
person_0ry year person_0 brought a child into the world ; but the children were unlike each other , some pretty , and some ugly.
After a considerable time had gone by , God sent an angel to them , to announce that he was coming to inspect their household.
person_0 , delighted that the person_1 should be so gracious , cleaned her house diligently , decked it with flowers , and strewed reeds on the floor.
Then she brought in her children , but only the beautiful ones.
She washed and bathed them , combed their hair , put clean raiment on them , and cautioned them to conduct themselves decorously and modestly in the presence of the person_1.
They were to bow down before him civilly , hold out their hands , and to answer his questions modestly and sensibly.
The ugly children were , however , not to let themselves be seen.
One hid himself beneath the hay , another under the roof , a third in the straw , the fourth in the stove , the fifth in the cellar , the sixth under a tub , the seventh beneath the wine-cask , the eighth under an old fur cloak , the ninth and tenth beneath the cloth out of which she always made their clothes , and the eleventh and twelfth under the leather out of which she cut their shoes.
She had scarcely got ready , before there was a knock at the house-door.
Adam looked through a chink , and saw that it was the person_1.
Adam opened the door respectfully , and the Heavenly Father entered.
There , in a row , stood the pretty children , and bowed before him , held out their hands , and knelt down.
The person_1 , however , began to bless them , laid his hands on the first , and said , `` Thou shalt be a powerful king ;"
and to the second , `` Thou a prince ,"
to the third , `` Thou a count ,"
to the fourth , `` Thou a knight ,"
to the fifth , `` Thou a nobleman ,"
to the sixth , `` Thou a burgher ,"
to the seventh , `` Thou a merchant ,"
to the eighth , `` Thou a learned man"
He bestowed upon them also all his richest blessings.
When person_0 saw that the person_1 was so mild and gracious , she thought , `` I will bring hither my ill-favoured children also , it may be that he will bestow his blessing on them likewise"
So she ran and brought them out of the hay , the straw , the stove , and wherever else she had concealed them.
Then came the whole coarse , dirty , shabby , sooty band.
The person_1 smiled , looked at them all , and said , `` I will bless these also"
He laid his hands on the first , and said to him , `` Thou shalt be a peasant ,"
to the second , `` Thou a fisherman ,"
to the third , `` Thou a smith ,"
to the fourth , `` Thou a tanner ,"
to the fifth , `` Thou a weaver ,"
to the sixth , `` Thou a shoemaker ,"
to the seventh , `` Thou a tailor ,"
to the eighth , `` Thou a potter ,"
to the ninth , `` Thou a waggoner ,"
to the tenth , `` Thou a sailor ,"
to the eleventh , `` Thou an errand-boy ,"
to the twelfth , `` Thou a scullion all the days of thy life"
When person_0 had heard all this she said , `` person_1 , how unequally thou dividest thy gifts ! After all they are all of them my children , whom I have brought into the world , thy favors should be given to all alike"
But God answered , `` person_0 , thou dost not understand.
It is right and necessary that the entire world should be supplied from thy children ; if they were all princes and lords , who would grow corn , thresh it , grind and bake it ? Who would be blacksmiths , weavers , carpenters , masons , labourers , tailors and seamstresses ? Each shall have his own place , so that one shall support the other , and all shall be fed like the limbs of one body"
Then person_0 answered , `` Ah , person_1 , forgive me , I was too quick in speaking to thee.
Have thy divine will with my children"
One day person_0 Coon was strolling along the brook which flowed not far from his home.
He stopped now and then , to crouch close to the water 's edge , in the hope of catching a fish.
And one time , when he lay quite still among the rocks , at the side of a deep pool , with his eyes searching the clear water , person_0 Coon suddenly saw something bright , all yellow and red , that lighted on the water right before him.
It was a bug , or a huge fly.
And person_0 was very fond of bugs -- to eat , you know.
So he lost no time.
The bright thing had scarcely settled on the water when person_0 reached out and seized it.
He put it into his mouth , when the strangest thing happened.
person_0 felt himself pulled right over into the water.
He was surprised , for he never knew a bug or a fly to be so strong as that.
Something pricked his cheek and person_0 thought that the bright thing had stung him.
He tried to take it out of his mouth , and he was surprised again.
Whatever the thing was , it seemed to be stuck fast in his mouth.
And all the time person_0 was being dragged along through the water.
He began to be frightened.
And for the first time he noticed that there was a slender line which stretched from his mouth straight across the pool.
As he looked along the line person_0 saw a man at the other end of it -- a man , standing on the other side of the brook ! And he was pulling person_0 toward him as fast as he could.
Do you wonder that person_0 Coon was frightened ? He jumped back -- as well as he could , in the water -- and tried to swim away.
His mouth hurt ; but he plunged and pulled just the same , and jerked his head and squirmed and wriggled and twisted.
And just as person_0 had almost given up hope of getting free , the gay-colored bug , or fly , or whatever it was , flew out of his mouth and took the line with it.
At least , that was what person_0 Coon thought.
And he swam quickly to the bank and scampered into the bushes.
Now , this was what really happened.
Farmer Green had come up the brook to catch trout.
On the end of his fish-line he had tied a make-believe fly , with a hook hidden under its red and yellow wings.
He had stolen along the brook very quietly , so that he would n't frighten the fish.
And he had made so little noise that person_0 Coon never heard him at all.
Farmer Green had not seen person_0 , crouched as he was among the stones.
And when person_0 reached out and grabbed the make-believe fly Farmer Green was even more surprised at what happened than person_0 himself.
If the fish-hook had n't worked loose from person_0 's mouth Farmer Green would have caught the queerest fish anybody ever caught , almost.
Something seemed to amuse Farmer Green , as he watched person_0 dive into the bushes ; and he laughed loud and long.
But person_0 Coon did n't laugh at all.
His mouth was too sore ; and he was too frightened.
But he was very , very glad that the strange bug had flown away"
It is more than a hundred years ago.
Behind the wood , by the great lake , stood the old baronial mansion.
Round about it lay a deep moat , in which grew reeds and grass.
Close by the bridge , near the entrance-gate , rose an old willow tree that bent over the reeds.
Up from the hollow lane sounded the clang of horns and the trampling of horses ; therefore the little girl who kept the geese hastened to drive her charges away from the bridge , before the hunting company should come gallopping up.
They drew near with such speed that the girl was obliged to climb up in a hurry , and perch herself on the coping-stone of the bridge , lest she should be ridden down.
She was still half a child , and had a pretty light figure , and a gentle expression in her face , with two clear blue eyes.
The noble baron took no note of this , but as he gallopped past the little goose-herd , he reversed the whip he held in his hand , and in rough sport gave her such a push in the chest with the butt-end , that she fell backwards into the ditch.
`` Everything in its place ,"
he cried ; `` into the puddle with you !"
And he laughed aloud , for this was intended for wit , and the company joined in his mirth : the whole party shouted and clamoured , and the dogs barked their loudest.
Fortunately for herself , the poor girl in falling seized one of the hanging branches of the willow tree , by means of which she kept herself suspended over the muddy water , and as soon as the baron and his company had disappeared through the castle-gate , the girl tried to scramble up again ; but the bough broke off at the top , and she would have fallen backward among the reeds , if a strong hand from above had not at that moment seized her.
It was the hand of a pedlar , who had seen from a short distance what had happened , and who now hurried up to give aid.
`` Everything in its right place ,"
he said , mimicking the gracious baron ; and he drew the little maiden up to the firm ground.
He would have restored the broken branch to the place from which it had been torn , but `` everything in its place"
can not always be managed , and therefore he stuck the piece in the ground.
`` Grow and prosper till you can furnish a good flute for them up yonder ,"
he said ; for he would have liked to play the `` rogue 's march"
for my lord the baron , and my lord 's whole family.
And then he betook himself to the castle , but not into the ancestral hall , he was too humble for that ! He went to the servants ' quarters , and the men and maids turned over his stock of goods , and bargained with him ; and from above , where the guests were at table , came a sound of roaring and screaming that was intended for song , and indeed they did their best.
Loud laughter , mingled with the barking and howling of dogs , sounded through the windows , for there was feasting and carousing up yonder.
Wine and strong old ale foamed in the jugs and glasses , and the dogs sat with their masters and dined with them.
They had the pedlar summoned upstairs , but only to make fun of him.
The wine had mounted into their heads , and the sense had flown out.
They poured wine into a stocking , that the pedlar might drink with them , but that he must drink quickly ; that was considered a rare jest , and was a cause of fresh laughter.
And then whole farms , with oxen and peasants too , were staked on a card , and won and lost.
`` Everything in its right place !"
said the pedlar , when he had at last made his escape out of what he called `` the Sodom and Gomorrah up yonder"
`` The open high-road is my right place ,"
he said ; `` I did not feel at all happy there"
And the little maiden who sat keeping the geese nodded at him in a friendly way , as he strode along beside the hedges.
And days and weeks went by ; and it became manifest that the willow branch which the pedlar had stuck into the ground by the castle moat remained fresh and green , and even brought forth new twigs.
The little goose-girl saw that the branch must have taken root , and rejoiced greatly at the circumstance ; for this tree , she said , was now her tree.
The tree certainly came forward well ; but everything else belonging to the castle went very rapidly back , what with feasting and gambling -- for these two things are like wheels , upon which no man can stand securely.
Six years had not passed away before the noble lord passed out of the castle-gate , a beggared man , and the mansion was bought by a rich dealer ; and this purchaser was the very man who had once been made a jest of there , for whom wine had been poured into a stocking ; but honesty and industry are good winds to speed a vessel ; and now the dealer was possessor of the baronial estate.
But from that hour no more card-playing was permitted there.
`` That is bad reading ,"
said he : `` when the Evil One saw a person_0 for the first time , he wanted to put a bad book against it , and invented card-playing"
The new proprietor took a wife ; and who might that be but the goose-girl , who had always been faithful and good , and looked as beautiful and fine in her new clothes as if she had been born a great lady.
And how did all this come about ? That is too long a story for our busy time , but it really happened , and the most important part is to come.
It was a good thing now to be in the old mansion.
The mother managed the domestic affairs , and the father superintended the estate , and it seemed as if blessings were streaming down.
Where rectitude enters in , prosperity is sure to follow.
The old house was cleaned and painted , the ditches were cleared and fruit trees planted.
Everything wore a bright cheerful look , and the floors were as polished as a draught board.
In the long winter evenings the lady sat at the spinning-wheel with her maids , and every Sunday evening there was a reading from the person_0 , by the Councillor of Justice himself -- this title the dealer had gained , though it was only in his old age.
The children grew up -- for children had come -- and they received the best education , though all had not equal abilities , as we find indeed in all families.
In the meantime the willow branch at the castle-gate had grown to be a splendid tree , which stood there free and self-sustained.
`` That is our genealogical tree ,"
the old people said , and the tree was to be honored and respected -- so they told all the children , even those who had not very good heads.
And a hundred years rolled by.
It was in our own time.
The lake had been converted to moorland , and the old mansion had almost disappeared.
A pool of water and the ruins of some walls , this was all that was left of the old baronial castle , with its deep moat ; and here stood also a magnificent old willow , with pendent boughs , which seemed to show how beautiful a tree may be if left to itself.
The main stem was certainly split from the root to the crown , and the storm had bowed the noble tree a little ; but it stood firm for all that , and from every cleft into which wind and weather had carried a portion of earth , grasses and flowers sprang forth : especially near the top , where the great branches parted , a sort of hanging garden had been formed of wild raspberry bush , and even a small quantity of mistletoe had taken root , and stood , slender and graceful , in the midst of the old willow which was mirrored in the dark water.
A field-path led close by the old tree.
High by the forest hill , with a splendid prospect in every direction , stood the new baronial hall , large and magnificent , with panes of glass so clearly transparent , that it looked as if there were no panes there at all.
The grand flight of steps that led to the entrance looked like a bower of roses and broad-leaved plants.
The lawn was as freshly green as if each separate blade of grass were cleaned morning and evening.
In the hall hung costly pictures ; silken chairs and sofas stood there , so easy that they looked almost as if they could run by themselves ; there were tables of great marble slabs , and books bound in morocco and gold.
Yes , truly , wealthy people lived here , people of rank : the baron with his family.
All things here corresponded with each other.
The motto was still `` Everything in its right place ;"
and therefore all the pictures which had been put up in the old house for honor and glory , hung now in the passage that led to the servants ' hall : they were considered as old lumber , and especially two old portraits , one representing a man in a pink coat and powdered wig , the other a lady with powdered hair and holding a rose in her hand , and each surrounded with a wreath of willow leaves.
These two pictures were pierced with many holes , because the little barons were in the habit of setting up the old people as a mark for their cross-bows.
The pictures represented the Councillor of Justice and his lady , the founders of the present family.
`` But they did not properly belong to our family ,"
said one of the little barons.
`` He was a dealer , and she had kept the geese.
They were not like papa and mamma"
The pictures were pronounced to be worthless ; and as the motto was `` Everything in its right place ,"
the great-grandmother and great-grandfather had been sent into the passage that led to the servants ' hall.
The son of the neighbouring clergyman was tutor in the great house.
One day he was out walking with his pupils , the little barons and their eldest sister , who had just been confirmed ; they came along the field-path , past the old willow , and as they walked on the young lady bound a wreath of field flowers , `` Everything in its right place ,"
and the flowers formed a pretty whole.
At the same time she heard every word that was spoken , and she liked to hear the clergyman 's son talk of the power of nature and of the great men and women in history.
She had a good hearty disposition , with true nobility of thought and soul , and a heart full of love for all that God hath created.
The party came to a halt at the old willow tree.
The youngest baron insisted on having such a flute cut for him from it as he had had made of other willows.
Accordingly the tutor broke off a branch.
`` Oh , do n't do that !"
cried the young baroness ; but it was done already.
`` That is our famous old tree ,"
she continued , `` and I love it dearly.
They laugh at me at home for this , but I do n't mind.
There is a story attached to this tree"
And she told what we all know about the tree , about the old mansion , the pedlar and the goose-girl , who had met for the first time in this spot , and had afterwards become the founders of the noble family to which the young barons belonged.
`` They would not be ennobled , the good old folks !"
she said.
`` They kept to the motto ` Everything in its right place ; ' and accordingly they thought it would be out of place for them to purchase a title with money.
My grandfather , the first baron , was their son : he is said to have been a very learned man , very popular with princes and princesses , and a frequent guest at the court festivals.
The others at home love him best ; but , I do n't know how , there seems to me something about that first pair that draws my heart towards them.
How comfortable , how patriarchal it must have been in the old house , where the mistress sat at the spinning-wheel among her maids , and the old master read aloud from the person_0 !"
`` They were charming , sensible people ,"
said the clergyman 's son ; and with this the conversation naturally fell upon nobles and citizens.
The young man scarcely seemed to belong to the citizen class , so well did he speak concerning the purpose and meaning of nobility.
He said , `` It is a great thing to belong to a family that has distinguished itself , and thus to have , as it were , in one 's blood , a spur that urges one on to make progress in all that is good.
It is delightful to have a name that serves as a card of admission into the highest circles.
Nobility means that which is great and noble : it is a coin that has received a stamp to indicate what it is worth.
It is the fallacy of the time , and many poets have frequently maintained this fallacy , that nobility of birth is accompanied by foolishness , and that the lower you go among the poor , the more does everything around shine.
But that is not my view , for I consider it entirely false.
In the higher classes many beautiful and kindly traits are found.
My mother told me one of this kind , and I could tell you many others.
`` My mother was on a visit to a great family in town.
My grandmother , I think , had been housekeeper to the count 's mother.
The great nobleman and my mother were alone in the room , when the former noticed that an old woman came limping on crutches into the courtyard.
Indeed , she was accustomed to come every Sunday , and carry away a gift with her.
` Ah , there is the poor old lady , ' said the nobleman : ` walking is a great toil to her ; ' and before my mother understood what he meant , he had gone out of the room and run down the stairs , to save the old woman the toilsome walk , by carrying to her the gift she had come to receive.
`` Now , that was only a small circumstance , but , like the widow 's two mites in the Scripture , it has a sound that finds an echo in the depths of the heart in human nature ; and these are the things the poet should show and point out ; especially in these times should he sing of it , for that does good , and pacifies and unites men.
But where a bit of mortality , because it has a genealogical tree and a coat of arms , rears up like an Arabian horse , and prances in the street , and says in the room , ` People out of the street have been here , ' when a commoner has been -- that is nobility in decay , and become a mere mask -- a mask of the kind that Thespis created ; and people are glad when such an one is turned into satire"
This was the speech of the clergyman 's son.
It was certainly rather long , but then the flute was being finished while he made it.
At the castle there was a great company.
Many guests came from the neighborhood and from the capital.
Many ladies , some tastefully , and others tastelessly dressed , were there , and the great hall was quite full of people.
The clergymen from the neighborhood stood respectfully congregated in a corner , which made it look almost as if there were to be a burial there.
But it was not so , for this was a party of pleasure , only that the pleasure had not yet begun.
A great concert was to be performed , and consequently the little baron had brought in his willow flute ; but he could not get a note out of it , nor could his papa , and therefore the flute was worth nothing.
There was instrumental music and song , both of the kind that delight the performers most -- quite charming ! `` You are a performer ?"
said a cavalier -- his father 's son and nothing else -- to the tutor.
`` You play the flute and make it too -- that 's genius.
That should command , and should have the place of honor !"
`` No indeed ,"
replied the young man , `` I only advance with the times , as every one is obliged to do"
`` Oh , you will enchant us with the little instrument , will you not ?"
And with these words he handed to the clergyman 's son the flute cut from the willow tree by the pool , and announced aloud that the tutor was about to perform a solo on that instrument.
Now , they only wanted to make fun of him , that was easily seen ; and therefore the tutor would not play , though indeed he could do so very well ; but they crowded round him and importuned him so strongly , that at last he took the flute and put it to his lips.
That was a wonderful flute ! A sound , as sustained as that which is emitted by the whistle of a steam engine , and much stronger , echoed far over courtyard , garden , and wood , miles away into the country ; and simultaneously with the tone came a rushing wind that roared , `` Everything in its right place !"
And papa flew as if carried by the wind straight out of the hall and into the shepherd 's cot ; and the shepherd flew , not into the hall , for there he could not come -- no , but into the room of the servants , among the smart lacqueys who strutted about there in silk stockings ; and the proud servants were struck motionless with horror at the thought that such a personage dared to sit down to table with them.
But in the hall the young baroness flew up to the place of honor at the top of the table , where she was worthy to sit ; and the young clergyman 's son had a seat next to her ; and there the two sat as if they were a newly-married pair.
An old count of one of the most ancient families in the country remained untouched in his place of honor ; for the flute was just , as men ought to be.
The witty cavalier , the son of his father and nothing else , who had been the cause of the flute-playing , flew head-over-heels into the poultry-house -- but not alone.
For a whole mile round about the sounds of the flute were heard , and singular events took place.
A rich banker 's family , driving along in a coach and four , was blown quite out of the carriage , and could not even find a place on the footboard at the back.
Two rich peasants who in our times had grown too high for their corn-fields , were tumbled into the ditch.
It was a dangerous flute , that : luckily , it burst at the first note , and that was a good thing , for then it was put back into the owner 's pocket.
`` Everything in its right place"
The day afterwards not a word was said about this marvellous event ; and thence has come the expression `` pocketing the flute"
Everything was in its usual order , only that the two old portraits of the dealer and the goose-girl hung on the wall in the banqueting hall.
They had been blown up yonder , and as one of the real connoisseurs said they had been painted by a master 's hand , they remained where they were , and were restored.
`` Everything in its right place"
And to that it will come ; for _ hereafter _ is long -- longer than this story"
An old story yet lives of the `` Thorny Road of Honour ,"
of a marksman , who indeed attained to rank and office , but only after a lifelong and weary strife against difficulties.
Who has not , in reading this story , thought of his own strife , and of his own numerous `` difficulties ?"
The story is very closely akin to reality ; but still it has its harmonious explanation here on earth , while reality often points beyond the confines of life to the regions of eternity.
The history of the world is like a magic lantern that displays to us , in light pictures upon the dark ground of the present , how the benefactors of mankind , the martyrs of genius , wandered along the thorny road of honor.
From all periods , and from every country , these shining pictures display themselves to us ; each only appears for a few moments , but each represents a whole life , sometimes a whole age , with its conflicts and victories.
Let us contemplate here and there one of the company of martyrs -- the company which will receive new members until the world itself shall pass away.
We look down upon a crowded amphitheatre.
Out of the `` Clouds"
of Aristophanes , satire and humor are pouring down in streams upon the audience ; on the stage Socrates , the most remarkable man in Athens , he who had been the shield and defense of the people against the thirty tyrants , is held up mentally and bodily to ridicule -- Socrates , who saved Alcibiades and Xenophon in the turmoil of battle , and whose genius soared far above the gods of the ancients.
He himself is present ; he has risen from the spectator 's bench , and has stepped forward , that the laughing Athenians may well appreciate the likeness between himself and the caricature on the stage : there he stands before them , towering high above them all.
Thou juicy , green , poisonous hemlock , throw thy shadow over Athens -- not thou , olive tree of fame ! Seven cities contended for the honor of giving birth to Homer -- that is to say , they contended after his death ! Let us look at him as he was in his lifetime.
He wanders on foot through the cities , and recites his verses for a livelihood ; the thought for the morrow turns his hair gray ! He , the great seer , is blind , and painfully pursues his way -- the sharp thorn tears the mantle of the king of poets.
His song yet lives , and through that alone live all the heroes and gods of antiquity.
-LRB- Illustration : THE KING OF POETS.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa One picture after another springs up from the east , from the west , far removed from each other in time and place , and yet each one forming a portion of the thorny road of honor , on which the thistle indeed displays a flower , but only to adorn the grave.
The camels pass along under the palm trees ; they are richly laden with indigo and other treasures of price , sent by the ruler of the land to him whose songs are the delight of the people , the fame of the country : he whom envy and falsehood have driven into exile has been found , and the caravan approaches the little town in which he has taken refuge.
A poor corpse is carried out of the town-gate , and the funeral procession causes the caravan to halt.
The dead man is he whom they have been sent to seek -- Firdusi -- who has wandered the thorny road of honor even to the end.
The African , with blunt features , thick lips , and woolly hair , sits on the marble steps of the palace in the capital of Portugal , and begs : he is the submissive slave of Camoens , and but for him , and for the copper coins thrown to him by the passers by , his master , the poet of the `` Lusiad ,"
would die of hunger.
Now , a costly monument marks the grave of Camoens.
There is a new picture.
Behind the iron grating a man appears , pale as death , with long unkempt beard.
`` I have made a discovery ,"
he says , `` the greatest that has been made for centuries ; and they have kept me locked up here for more than twenty years !"
`` Who is the man ? `` A madman ,"
replies the keeper of the madhouse.
`` What whimsical ideas these lunatics have ! He imagines that one can propel things by means of steam.
It is Solomon de Cares , the discoverer of the power of steam , whose theory , expressed in dark words , is not understood by Richelieu -- and he dies in the madhouse !"
Here stands Columbus , whom the street boys used once to follow and jeer , because he wanted to discover a new world -- and he has discovered it.
Shouts of joy greet him from the breasts of all , and the clash of bells sounds to celebrate his triumphant return ; but the clash of the bells of envy soon drowns the others.
The discoverer of a world , he who lifted the American gold land from the sea , and gave it to his king -- he is rewarded with iron chains.
He wishes that these chains may be placed in his coffin , for they witness of the world , and of the way in which a man 's contemporaries reward good service.
One picture after another comes crowding on ; the thorny path of honor and of fame is over-filled.
Here in dark night sits the man who measured the mountains in the moon ; he who forced his way out into the endless space , among stars and planets ; he , the mighty man who understood the spirit of nature , and felt the earth moving beneath his feet -- Galileo.
Blind and deaf he sits -- an old man thrust through with the spear of suffering , and amid the torments of neglect , scarcely able to lift his foot -- that foot with which , in the anguish of his soul , when men denied the truth , he stamped upon the ground with the exclamation ,"
_ Yet _ it moves !"
Here stands a woman of childlike mind , yet full of faith and inspiration ; she carries the banner in front of the combating army , and brings victory and salvation to her fatherland.
The sound of shouting arises , and the pile flames up : they are burning the witch , Joan of Arc.
Yes , and a future century jeers at the white lily.
Voltaire , the satyr of human intellect , writes"
_ La Pucelle _"
At the _ Thing _ or assembly at Viborg , the person_0 nobles burn the laws of the king -- they flame up high , illuminating the period and the lawgiver , and throw a glory into the dark prison tower , where an old man is growing gray and bent.
With his finger he marks out a groove in the stone table.
It is the popular king who sits there , once the ruler of three kingdoms , the friend of the citizen and the peasant : it is Christian the Second.
Enemies wrote his history.
Let us remember his improvements of seven and twenty years , if we can not forget his crime.
A ship sails away , quitting the person_0 shores ; a man leans against the mast , casting a last glance towards the Island Hueen.
It is Tycho Brahe.
He raised the name of Denmark to the stars , and was rewarded with injury , loss , and sorrow.
He is going to a strange country.
`` The vault of heaven is above me everywhere ,"
he says , `` and what do I want more ?"
And away sails the famous Dane , the astronomer , to live honored and free in a strange land.
`` Ay , free , if only from the unbearable sufferings of the body !"
comes in a sigh through time , and strikes upon our ear.
What a picture ! Griffenfeldt , a person_0 Prometheus , bound to the rocky island of Munkholm.
We are in America , on the margin of one of the largest rivers ; an innumerable crowd has gathered , for it is said that a ship is to sail against wind and weather , bidding defiance to the elements ; the man who thinks he can solve the problem is named Robert Fulton.
The ship begins its passage , but suddenly it stops.
The crowd begins to laugh and whistle and hiss -- the very father of the man whistles with the rest.
`` Conceit ! Foolery !"
is the cry.
`` It has happened just as he deserved : put the crack-brain under lock and key !"
Then suddenly a little nail breaks , which had stopped the machine for a few moments ; and now the wheels turn again , the floats break the force of the waters , and the ship continues its course -- and the beam of the steam-engine shortens the distance between far lands from hours into minutes.
O human race , canst thou grasp the happiness of such a minute of consciousness , this penetration of the soul by its mission , the moment in which all dejection , and every wound -- even those caused by own fault -- is changed into health and strength and clearness -- when discord is converted to harmony -- the minute in which men seem to recognize the manifestation of the heavenly grace in one man , and feel how this one imparts it to all ? Thus the thorny path of honor shows itself as a glory , surrounding the earth with its beams : thrice happy he who is chosen to be a wanderer there , and , without merit of his own , to be placed between the builder of the bridge and the earth , between Providence and the human race ! On mighty wings the spirit of history floats through the ages , and shows -- giving courage and comfort , and awakening gentle thoughts -- on the dark nightly background , but in gleaming pictures , the thorny path of honor ; which does not , like a fairy tale , end in brilliancy and joy here on earth , but stretches out beyond all time , even into eternity !"
The she-wolf brought forth a young one , and invited the fox to be godfather.
`` After all , he is a near relative of ours ,"
said she , `` he has a good understanding , and much talent ; he can instruct my little son , and help him forward in the world"
The fox , too , appeared quite honest , and said , `` Worthy Mrs.
Gossip , I thank you for the honor which you are doing me ; I will , however , conduct myself in such a way that you shall be repaid for it"
He enjoyed himself at the feast , and made merry ; afterwards he said , `` Dear Mrs.
Gossip , it is our duty to take care of the child , it must have good food that it may be strong.
I know a sheep-fold from which we might fetch a nice morsel"
The wolf was pleased with the ditty , and she went out with the fox to the farm-yard.
He pointed out the fold from afar , and said , `` You will be able to creep in there without being seen , and in the meantime I will look about on the other side to see if I can pick up a chicken"
He , however , did not go there , but sat down at the entrance to the forest , stretched his legs and rested.
The she-wolf crept into the stable.
A dog was lying there , and it made such a noise that the peasants came running out , caught Gossip Wolf , and poured a strong burning mixture , which had been prepared for washing , over her skin.
At last she escaped , and dragged herself outside.
There lay the fox , who pretended to be full of complaints , and said , `` Ah , dear Mistress Gossip , how ill I have fared , the peasants have fallen on me , and have broken every limb I have ; if you do not want me to lie where I am and perish , you must carry me away"
The she-wolf herself was only able to go away slowly , but she was in such concern about the fox that she took him on her back , and slowly carried him perfectly safe and sound to her house.
Then the fox cried to her , `` Farewell , dear Mistress Gossip , may the roasting you have had do you good ,"
laughed heartily at her , and bounded off"
Heavy clouds obscured the sky , and the person_0 did not make his appearance at all.
I stood in my little room , more lonely than ever , and looked up at the sky where he ought to have shown himself.
My thoughts flew far away , up to my great friend , who every evening told me such pretty tales , and showed me pictures.
Yes , he has had an experience indeed.
He glided over the waters of the Deluge , and smiled on Noah 's ark just as he lately glanced down upon me , and brought comfort and promise of a new world that was to spring forth from the old.
When the Children of Israel sat weeping by the waters of Babylon , he glanced mournfully upon the willows where hung the silent harps.
When Romeo climbed the balcony , and the promise of true love fluttered like a cherub toward heaven , the round person_0 hung , half hidden among the dark cypresses , in the lucid air.
He saw the captive giant at St.
Helena , looking from the lonely rock across the wide ocean , while great thoughts swept through his soul.
Ah ! what tales the person_0 can tell.
Human life is like a story to him.
To-night I shall not see thee again , old friend.
To-night I can draw no picture of the memories of thy visit.
And , as I looked dreamily towards the clouds , the sky became bright.
There was a glancing light , and a beam from the person_0 fell upon me.
It vanished again , and dark clouds flew past ; but still it was a greeting , a friendly good-night offered to me by the person_0"
A disbanded soldier had nothing to live on , and did not know how to get on.
So he went out into the forest and when he had walked for a short time , he met a little man who was , however , the Devil.
The little man said to him , `` What ails you , you seem so very sorrowful ?"
Then the soldier said , `` I am hungry , but have no money"
The Devil said , `` If you will hire yourself to me , and be my serving-man , you shall have enough for all your life ? You shall serve me for seven years , and after that you shall again be free.
But one thing I must tell you , and that is , you must not wash , comb , or trim yourself , or cut your hair or nails , or wipe the water from your eyes"
The soldier said , `` All right , if there is no help for it ,"
and went off with the little man , who straightway led him down into hell.
Then he told him what he had to do.
He was to poke the fire under the kettles wherein the hell-broth was stewing , keep the house clean , drive all the sweepings behind the doors , and see that everything was in order , but if he once peeped into the kettles , it would go ill with him.
The soldier said , `` Good , I will take care"
And then the old Devil went out again on his wanderings , and the soldier entered upon his new duties , made the fire , and swept the dirt well behind the doors , just as he had been bidden.
When the old Devil came back again , he looked to see if all had been done , appeared satisfied , and went forth a second time.
The soldier now took a good look on every side ; the kettles were standing all round hell with a mighty fire below them , and inside they were boiling and sputtering.
He would have given anything to look inside them , if the Devil had not so particularly forbidden him : at last , he could no longer restrain himself , slightly raised the lid of the first kettle , and peeped in , and there he saw his former corporal shut in.
`` Aha , old bird !"
said he , `` Do I meet you here ? You once had me in your power , now I have you ,"
and he quickly let the lid fall , poked the fire , and added a fresh log.
After that , he went to the second kettle , raised its lid also a little , and peeped in ; his former ensign was in that.
`` Aha , old bird , so I find you here ! you once had me in your power , now I have you"
He closed the lid again , and fetched yet another log to make it really hot.
Then he wanted to see who might be sitting up in the third kettle it was actually be but a general.
`` Aha , old bird , do I meet you here ? Once you had me in your power , now I have you"
And he fetched the bellows and made hell-fire blaze right under him.
So he did his work seven years in hell , did not wash , comb , or trim himself , or cut his hair or nails , or wash the water out of his eyes , and the seven years seemed so short to him that he thought he had only been half a year.
Now when the time had fully gone by , the Devil came and said , `` Well Hans , what have you done ?"
`` I poked the fire under the kettles , and I have swept all the dirt well behind the doors"
`` But you have peeped into the kettles as well ; it is lucky for you that you added fresh logs to them , or else your life would have been forfeited ; now that your time is up , will you go home again ?"
`` Yes ,"
said the soldier , `` I should very much like to see what my father is doing at home"
The Devil said , `` In order that you may receive the wages you have earned , go and fill your knapsack full of the sweepings , and take it home with you.
You must also go unwashed and uncombed , with long hair on your head and beard , and with uncut nails and dim eyes , and when you are asked whence you come , you must say , `` From hell ,"
and when you are asked who you are , you are to say , `` The Devil 's sooty brother , and my King as well"
The soldier held his peace , and did as the Devil bade him , but he was not at all satisfied with his wages.
Then as soon as he was up in the forest again , he took his knapsack from his back , to empty it , but on opening it , the sweepings had become pure gold.
`` I should never have expected that ,"
said he , and was well pleased , and entered the town.
The landlord was standing in front of the inn , and when he saw the soldier approaching , he was terrified , because Hans looked so horrible , worse than a scare-crow.
He called to him and asked , `` Whence comest thou ?"
`` From hell"
`` Who art thou ?"
`` The Devil 's sooty brother , and my King as well"
Then the host would not let him enter , but when Hans showed him the gold , he came and unlatched the door himself.
Hans then ordered the best room and attendance , ate , and drank his fill , but neither washed nor combed himself as the Devil had bidden him , and at last lay down to sleep.
But the knapsack full of gold remained before the eyes of the landlord , and left him no peace , and during the night he crept in and stole it away.
Next morning , however , when Hans got up and wanted to pay the landlord and travel further , behold his knapsack was gone ! But he soon composed himself and thought , `` Thou hast been unfortunate from no fault of thine own ,"
and straightway went back again to hell , complained of his misfortune to the old Devil , and begged for his help.
The Devil said , `` Seat yourself , I will wash , comb , and trim you , cut your hair and nails , and wash your eyes for you ,"
and when he had done with him , he gave him the knapsack back again full of sweepings , and said , `` Go and tell the landlord that he must return you your money , or else I will come and fetch him , and he shall poke the fire in your place"
Hans went up and said to the landlord , `` Thou hast stolen my money ; if thou dost not return it , thou shalt go down to hell in my place , and wilt look as horrible as I"
Then the landlord gave him the money , and more besides , only begging him to keep it secret , and Hans was now a rich man.
He set out on his way home to his father , bought himself a shabby smock-frock to wear , and strolled about making music , for he had learned to do that while he was with the Devil in hell.
There was however , an old King in that country , before whom he had to play , and the King was so delighted with his playing , that he promised him his eldest daughter in marriage.
But when she heard that she was to be married to a common fellow in a smock-frock , she said , `` Rather than do that , I would go into the deepest water"
Then the King gave him the youngest , who was quite willing to do it to please her father , and thus the Devil 's sooty brother got the King 's daughter , and when the aged King died , the whole kingdom likewise"
WHEN Francis -LRB- named the first -RRB- o ` er Frenchmen reign 'd , In Italy young person_0 laurels gained , And oft such daring valor showed in fight , With ev ` ry honor he was made a knight ; The monarch placed the spur upon his heel , That all around his proper worth might feel.
Then household deities at home he sought , Where -- not at prayers his beauteous dame he caught : He 'd left her , truly , quite dissolv 'd in tears ; But now the belle had bid adieu to fears ; And oft was dancing joyously around , With all the company that could be found.
GALLANTS in crowds Sir person_0 soon perceived ; At sight of these the knight was sorely grieved ; And , turning in his mind how best to act ; Cried he , Can this be truly held a fact , That I 've been worthy while I 'd fame in view , Of cuckoldom at home , and knighthood too ? It ought to be but half : -- the truth let 's know ; From constancy the purest blessings flow.
Then like a father-confessor he dressed , And took his seat where priests their flock confessed.
His lady absolution sought that day , And on her knees before him ` gan to pray ; The minor sins were told with downcast eyes , And then for hearing those of larger size , The husband-confessor prepared his ears : -- Said she , Good father , -LRB- ` mid a flood of tears -RRB- , My bed receives , -LRB- the fault I fear 's not slight , -RRB- A gentleman , a parson , and a knight.
Still more had followed , but , by rage o ` ercome , Sir person_0 cut the thread , and she was mum ; Though , doubtless , had the fair been let proceed , Quite long her Litany had been decreed.
THe husband , in a rage , exclaimed , thou jade , A parson , say ` st thou ? t ` whom dost think thou ` st made This curst confession ? -- To my spouse , cried she , I saw you enter here , and came with glee , Supposing you 'd a trick to raise surprise ; Howe'er ` tis strange that one so very wise , The riddle should not fully comprehend : -- A KNIGHT , the king created you , my friend ; A GENTLEMAN , your rank was long ago ; A PARSON , you have made yourself you know.
Goon heav ` ns ! exclaimed the knight , ` tis very clear , And I a blockhead surely must appear"
There was once a very old man , whose eyes had become dim , his ears dull of hearing , his knees trembled , and when he sat at table he could hardly hold the spoon , and spilt the broth upon the table-cloth or let it run out of his mouth.
His son and his son 's wife were disgusted at this , so the old grandfather at last had to sit in the corner behind the stove , and they gave him his food in an earthenware bowl , and not even enough of it.
And he used to look towards the table with his eyes full of tears.
Once , too , his trembling hands could not hold the bowl , and it fell to the ground and broke.
The young wife scolded him , but he said nothing and only sighed.
Then they bought him a wooden bowl for a few half-pence , out of which he had to eat.
They were once sitting thus when the little grandson of four years old began to gather together some bits of wood upon the ground.
`` What are you doing there ?"
asked the father.
`` I am making a little trough ,"
answered the child , `` for father and mother to eat out of when I am big"
The man and his wife looked at each other for a while , and presently began to cry.
Then they took the old grandfather to the table , and henceforth always let him eat with them , and likewise said nothing if he did spill a little of anything"
There was once a mother who had a little boy of seven years old , who was so handsome and lovable that no one could look at him without liking him , and she herself worshipped him above everything in the world.
Now it so happened that he suddenly became ill , and God took him to himself ; and for this the mother could not be comforted , and wept both day and night.
But soon afterwards , when the child had been buried , it appeared by night in the places where it had sat and played during its life , and if the mother wept , it wept also , and when morning came it disappeared.
As , however , the mother would not stop crying , it came one night , in the little white shroud in which it had been laid in its coffin , and with its wreath of flowers round its head , and stood on the bed at her feet , and said , `` Oh , mother , do stop crying , or I shall never fall asleep in my coffin , for my shroud will not dry because of all thy tears , which fall upon it"
The mother was afraid when she heard that , and wept no more.
The next night the child came again , and held a little light in its hand , and said , `` Look , mother , my shroud is nearly dry , and I can rest in my grave"
Then the mother gave her sorrow into God 's keeping , and bore it quietly and patiently , and the child came no more , but slept in its little bed beneath the earth"
The fox once came to a meadow in which was a flock of fine fat geese , on which he smiled and said , `` I come in the nick of time , you are sitting together quite beautifully , so that I can eat you up one after the other"
The geese cackled with terror , sprang up , and began to wail and beg piteously for their lives.
But the fox would listen to nothing , and said , `` There is no mercy to be had ! You must die"
At length one of them took heart and said , `` If we poor geese are to yield up our vigorous young lives , show us the only possible favor and allow us one more prayer , that we may not die in our sins , and then we will place ourselves in a row , so that you can always pick yourself out the fattest"
`` Yes ,"
said the fox , `` that is reasonable , and a pious request.
Pray away , I will wait till you are done"
Then the first began a good long prayer , for ever saying , `` Ga ! Ga !"
and as she would make no end , the second did not wait until her turn came , but began also , `` Ga ! Ga !"
The third and fourth followed her , and soon they were all cackling together.
When they have done praying , the story shall be continued further , but at present they are still praying without stopping"
It is a strange thing , that when I feel most fervently and most deeply , my hands and my tongue seem alike tied , so that I can not rightly describe or accurately portray the thoughts that are rising within me ; and yet I am a painter : my eye tells me as much as that , and all my friends who have seen my sketches and fancies say the same.
I am a poor lad , and live in one of the narrowest of lanes ; but I do not want for light , as my room is high up in the house , with an extensive prospect over the neighbouring roofs.
During the first few days I went to live in the town , I felt low-spirited and solitary enough.
Instead of the forest and the green hills of former days , I had here only a forest of chimney-pots to look out upon.
And then I had not a single friend ; not one familiar face greeted me.
So one evening I sat at the window , in a desponding mood ; and presently I opened the casement and looked out.
Oh , how my heart leaped up with joy ! Here was a well-known face at last -- a round , friendly countenance , the face of a good friend I had known at home.
In , fact it was the MOON that looked in upon me.
He was quite unchanged , the dear old Moon , and had the same face exactly that he used to show when he peered down upon me through the willow trees on the moor.
I kissed my hand to him over and over again , as he shone far into my little room ; and he , for his part , promised me that every evening , when he came abroad , he would look in upon me for a few moments.
This promise he has faithfully kept.
It is a pity that he can only stay such a short time when he comes.
Whenever he appears , he tells me of one thing or another that he has seen on the previous night , or on that same evening.
`` Just paint the scenes I describe to you"
-- this is what he said to me -- `` and you will have a very pretty picture-book"
I have followed his injunction for many evenings.
I could make up a new `` Thousand and One Nights ,"
in my own way , out of these pictures , but the number might be too great , after all.
The pictures I have here given have not been chosen at random , but follow in their proper order , just as they were described to me.
Some great gifted painter , or some poet or musician , may make something more of them if he likes ; what I have given here are only hasty sketches , hurriedly put upon the paper , with some of my own thoughts interspersed ; for the Moon did not come to me every evening -- a cloud sometimes hid his face from me"
ONE morning a little rabbit sat on a bank.
He pricked his ears and listened to the trit-trot , trit-trot of a pony.
A gig was coming along the road ; it was driven by person_1.
McGregor , and beside him sat person_1s.
McGregor in her best bonnet.
AS soon as they had passed , little person_0 Bunny slid down into the road , and set off -- with a hop , skip and a jump -- to call upon his relations , who lived in the wood at the back of person_1.
McGregor 's garden.
THAT wood was full of rabbit holes ; and in the neatest sandiest hole of all , cousins -- Flopsy , Mopsy , Cotton-tail and person_2.
Old person_1s.
Rabbit was a widow ; she earned her living by knitting rabbit-wool mittens and muffetees -LRB- I once bought a pair at a bazaar -RRB-.
She also sold herbs , and rosemary tea , and rabbit-tobacco -LRB- which is what WE call lavender -RRB-.
LITTLE person_0 did not very much want to see his Aunt.
He came round the back of the fir-tree , and nearly tumbled upon the top of his Cousin person_2.
PETER was sitting by himself.
He looked poorly , and was dressed in a red cotton pocket-handkerchief.
`` person_2 ,"
-- said little person_0 , in a whisper -- `` who has got your clothes ?"
PETER replied -- `` The scarecrow in person_1.
McGregor 's garden ,"
and described how he had been chased about the garden , and had dropped his shoes and coat.
Little person_0 sat down beside his cousin , and assured him that person_1.
McGregor had gone out in a gig , and person_1s.
McGregor also ; and certainly for the day , because she was wearing her best bonnet.
PETER said he hoped that it would rain.
At this point , old person_1s.
Rabbit 's voice was heard inside the rabbit hole calling -- `` Cotton-tail ! Cotton-tail ! fetch some more camomile !"
person_2 said he thought he might feel better if he went for a walk.
THEY went away hand in hand , and got upon the flat top of the wall at the bottom of the wood.
From here they looked down into person_1.
McGregor 's garden.
person_2 's coat and shoes were plainly to be seen upon the scarecrow , topped with an old tam-o - shanter of person_1.
McGregor 's.
LITTLE person_0 said , `` It spoils people 's clothes to squeeze under a gate ; the proper way to get in , is to climb down a pear tree"
person_2 fell down head first ; but it was of no consequence , as the bed below was newly raked and quite soft.
IT had been sown with lettuces.
They left a great many odd little foot-marks all over the bed , especially little person_0 , who was wearing clogs.
LITTLE person_0 said that the first thing to be done was to get back person_2 's clothes , in order that they might be able to use the pocket handkerchief.
They took them off the scarecrow.
There had been rain during the night ; there was water in the shoes , and the coat was somewhat shrunk.
person_0 tried on the tam - o-shanter , but it was too big for him.
THEN he suggested that they should fill the pocket - handkerchief with onions , as a little present for his Aunt.
person_2 did not seem to be enjoying himself ; he kept hearing noises.
BENJAMIN , on the contrary , was perfectly at home , and ate a lettuce leaf.
He said that he was in the habit of coming to the garden with his father to get lettuces for their Sunday dinner.
-LRB- The name of little person_0 's papa was old person_1.
person_0 Bunny.
-RRB- The lettuces certainly were very fine.
PETER did not eat anything ; he said he should like to go home.
Presently he dropped half the onions.
LITTLE person_0 said that it was not possible to get back up the pear-tree , with a load of vegetables.
He led the way boldly towards the other end of the garden.
They went along a little walk on planks , under a sunny red - brick wall.
The mice sat on their door - steps cracking cherry-stones , they winked at person_2 Rabbit and little person_0 Bunny.
PRESENTLY person_2 let the pocket-handkerchief go again.
THEY got amongst flower - pots , and frames and tubs ; person_2 heard noises worse than ever , his eyes were as big as lolly-pops ! He was a step or two in front of his cousin , when he suddenly stopped.
THIS is what those little rabbits saw round that corner ! Little person_0 took one look , and then , in half a minute less than no time , he hid himself and person_2 and the onions underneath a large basket.
THE cat got up and stretched herself , and came and sniffed at the basket.
Perhaps she liked the smell of onions ! Anyway , she sat down upon the top of the basket.
SHE sat there for FIVE HOURS.
I can not draw you a picture of person_2 and person_0 underneath the basket , because it was quite dark , and because the smell of onions was fearful ; it made person_2 Rabbit and little person_0 cry.
The sun got round behind the wood , and it was quite late in the afternoon ; but still the cat sat upon the basket.
AT length there was a pitter - patter , pitter-patter , and some bits of mortar fell from the wall above.
The cat looked up and saw old person_1.
person_0 Bunny prancing along the top of the wall of the upper terrace.
He was smoking a pipe of rabbit-tobacco , and had a little switch in his hand.
He was looking for his son.
OLD person_1.
Bunny had no opinion whatever of cats.
He took a tremendous jump off the top of the wall on to the top of the cat , and cuffed it off the basket , and kicked it into the garden-house , scratching off a handful of fur.
The cat was too much surprised to scratch back.
WHEN old person_1.
Bunny had driven the cat into the green-house , he locked the door.
Then he came back to the basket and took out his son person_0 by the ears , and whipped him with the little switch.
Then he took out his nephew person_2.
THEN he took out the handkerchief of onions , and marched out of the garden.
When person_1.
McGregor returned about half an hour later , he observed several things which perplexed him.
It looked as though some person had been walking all over the garden in a pair of clogs -- only the foot-marks were too ridiculously little ! Also he could not understand how the cat could have managed to shut herself up INSIDE the green-house , locking the door upon the OUTSIDE.
WHEN person_2 got home , his mother forgave him , because she was so glad to see that he had found his shoes and coat.
Cotton-tail and person_2 folded up the pocket - handkerchief , and old person_1s.
Rabbit strung up the onions and hung them from the kitchen ceiling , with the rabbit-tobacco.
The End"
ONCE upon a time there was a little fat comfortable gray squirrel , called person_1.
He had a nest thatched with leaves in the top of a tall tree ; and he had a little squirrel wife called person_0.
TIMMY TIPTOES sat out , enjoying the breeze ; he whisked his tail and chuckled -- `` Little wife person_0 , the nuts are ripe ; we must lay up a store for winter and spring"
person_0 was busy pushing moss under the thatch -- `` The nest is so snug , we shall be sound asleep all winter"
`` Then we shall wake up all the thinner , when there is nothing to eat in spring-time ,"
replied prudent Timothy.
WHEN person_1 and person_0 came to the nut thicket , they found other squirrels were there already.
person_1 took off his jacket and hung it on a twig ; they worked away quietly by themselves.
EVERY day they made several journeys and picked quantities of nuts.
They carried them away in bags , and stored them in several hollow stumps near the tree where they had built their nest.
WHEN these stumps were full , they began to empty the bags into a hole high up a tree , that had belonged to a wood-pecker ; the nuts rattled down -- down -- down inside.
`` How shall you ever get them out again ? It is like a money-box !"
said person_0.
`` I shall be much thinner before spring-time , my love ,"
said person_1 , peeping into the hole.
THEY did collect quantities -- because they did not lose them ! Squirrels who bury their nuts in the ground lose more than half , because they can not remember the place.
The most forgetful squirrel in the wood was called Silvertail.
He began to dig , and he could not remember.
And then he dug again and found some nuts that did not belong to him ; and there was a fight.
And other squirrels began to dig , -- the whole wood was in commotion ! UNFORTUNATELY , just at this time a flock of little birds flew by , from bush to bush , searching for green caterpillars and spiders.
There were several sorts of little birds , twittering different songs.
The first one sang -- `` Who 's bin digging-up MY nuts ? Who 's - been-digging - up MY nuts ?"
And another sang -- `` Little bita bread and-NO-cheese ! Little bit-a-bread an ' - NO - cheese !"
THE squirrels followed and listened.
The first little bird flew into the bush where person_1 and person_0 were quietly tying up their bags , and it sang -- `` Who 's - bin digging-up MY nuts ? Who 's been digging-up MY - nuts ?"
person_1 went on with his work without replying ; indeed , the little bird did not expect an answer.
It was only singing its natural song , and it meant nothing at all.
BUT when the other squirrels heard that song , they rushed upon person_1 and cuffed and scratched him , and upset his bag of nuts.
The innocent little bird which had caused all the mischief , flew away in a fright ! person_1 rolled over and over , and then turned tail and fled towards his nest , followed by a crowd of squirrels shouting -- `` Who 's - been digging-up MY-nuts ?"
THEY caught him and dragged him up the very same tree , where there was the little round hole , and they pushed him in.
The hole was much too small for person_1 ' figure.
They squeezed him dreadfully , it was a wonder they did not break his ribs.
`` We will leave him here till he confesses ,"
said Silvertail Squirrel , and he shouted into the hole -- `` Who 's - been-digging-up MY-nuts ?"
TIMMY TIPTOES made no reply ; he had tumbled down inside the tree , upon half a peck of nuts belonging to himself.
He lay quite stunned and still.
GOODY TIPTOES picked up the nut bags and went home.
She made a cup of tea for person_1 ; but he did n't come and did n't come.
person_0 passed a lonely and unhappy night.
Next morning she ventured back to the nut-bushes to look for him ; but the other unkind squirrels drove her away.
She wandered all over the wood , calling -- `` person_1 ! person_1 ! Oh , where is person_1 ?"
IN the meantime person_1 came to his senses.
He found himself tucked up in a little moss bed , very much in the dark , feeling sore ; it seemed to be under ground.
person_1 coughed and groaned , because his ribs hurted him.
There was a chirpy noise , and a small striped Chipmunk appeared with a night light , and hoped he felt better ? It was most kind to person_1 ; it lent him its nightcap ; and the house was full of provisions.
THE Chipmunk explained that it had rained nuts through the top of the tree -- `` Besides , I found a few buried !"
It laughed and chuckled when it heard person_1 's story.
While person_1 was confined to bed , it ` ticed him to eat quantities -- `` But how shall I ever get out through that hole unless I thin myself ? My wife will be anxious !"
`` Just another nut -- or two nuts ; let me crack them for you ,"
said the Chipmunk.
person_1 grew fatter and fatter ! NOW person_0 had set to work again by herself.
She did not put any more nuts into the woodpecker 's hole , because she had always doubted how they could be got out again.
She hid them under a tree root ; they rattled down , down , down.
Once when person_0 emptied an extra big bagful , there was a decided squeak ; and next time person_0 brought another bagful , a little striped Chipmunk scrambled out in a hurry.
`` IT is getting perfectly full - up down-stairs ; the sitting-room is full , and they are rolling along the passage ; and my husband , Chippy Hackee , has run away and left me.
What is the explanation of these showers of nuts ?"
`` I am sure I beg your pardon ; I did not not know that anybody lived here ,"
said Mrs.
person_0 ; `` but where is Chippy Hackee ? My husband , person_1 , has run away too"
`` I know where Chippy is ; a little bird told me ,"
said Mrs.
Chippy Hackee.
SHE led the way to the woodpecker 's tree , and they listened at the hole.
Down below there was a noise of nut crackers , and a fat squirrel voice and a thin squirrel voice were singing together -- `` My little old man and I fell out , How shall we bring this matter about ? Bring it about as well as you can , And get you gone , you little old man !"
`` You could squeeze in , through that little round hole ,"
said person_0.
`` Yes , I could ,"
said the Chipmunk , `` but my husband , Chippy Hackee , bites !"
Down below there was a noise of cracking nuts and nibbling ; and then the fat squirrel voice and the thin squirrel voice sang -- `` For the diddlum day Day diddle dum di ! Day diddle diddle dum day !"
THEN person_0 peeped in at the hole , and called down -- `` person_1 ! Oh fie , person_1 !"
And person_1 replied , `` Is that you , person_0 ? Why , certainly !"
He came up and kissed person_0 through the hole ; but he was so fat that he could not get out.
Chippy Hackee was not too fat , but he did not want to come ; he stayed down below and chuckled.
AND so it went on for a fortnight ; till a big wind blew off the top of the tree , and opened up the hole and let in the rain.
Then person_1 came out , and went home with an umbrella.
BUT Chippy Hackee continued to camp out for another week , although it was uncomfortable.
AT last a large bear came walking through the wood.
Perhaps he also was looking for nuts ; he seemed to be sniffing around.
CHIPPY HACKEE went home in a hurry ! AND when Chippy Hackee got home , he found he had caught a cold in his head ; and he was more uncomfortable still.
And now person_1 and person_0 keep their nut-store fastened up with a little padlock.
AND whenever that little bird sees the Chipmunks , he sings -- `` Who 's - been - digging-up MY-nuts ? Who 's been digging-up MY-nuts ?"
But nobody ever answers ! The End"
ONCE upon a time there were four little Rabbits , and their names were -- Flopsy , Mopsy , Cotton-tail , and person_1.
They lived with their Mother in a sand-bank , underneath the root of a very big fir tree.
`` NOW , my dears ,"
said old Mrs.
Rabbit one morning , `` you may go into the fields or down the lane , but do n't go into Mr.
Mcperson_0 's garden : your Father had an accident there ; he was put in a pie by Mrs.
Mcperson_0"
`` NOW run along , and do n't get into mischief.
I am going out"
THEN old Mrs.
Rabbit took a basket and her umbrella , to the baker 's.
She bought a loaf of brown bread and five currant buns.
FLOPSY , Mopsy , and Cottontail , who were good little bunnies , went down the lane to gather blackberries ; BUT person_1 , who was very naughty , ran straight away to Mr.
Mcperson_0 's garden and squeezed under the gate ! FIRST he ate some lettuces and some French beans ; and then he ate some radishes ; AND then , feeling rather sick , he went to look for some parsley.
BUT round the end of a cucumber frame , whom should he meet but Mr.
Mcperson_0 ! MR.
McGREGOR was on his hands and knees planting out young cabbages , but he jumped up and ran after person_1 , waving a rake and calling out , `` Stop thief !"
PETER was most dreadfully frightened ; he rushed all over the garden , for he had forgotten the way back to the gate.
He lost one of his shoes among the cabbages , and the other shoe amongst the potatoes.
AFTER losing them , he ran on four legs and went faster , so that I think he might have got away altogether if he had not unfortunately run into a gooseberry net , and got caught by the large buttons on his jacket.
It was a blue jacket with brass buttons , quite new.
PETER gave himself up for lost , and shed big tears ; but his sobs were overheard by some friendly sparrows , who flew to him in great excitement , and implored him to exert himself.
MR.
McGREGOR came up with a sieve , which he intended to pop upon the top of person_1 ; but person_1 wriggled out just in time , leaving his jacket behind him.
AND rushed into the toolshed , and jumped into a can.
It would have been a beautiful thing to hide in , if it had not had so much water in it.
MR.
McGREGOR was quite sure that person_1 was somewhere in the toolshed , perhaps hidden underneath a flower-pot.
He began to turn them over carefully , looking under each.
Presently person_1 sneezed -- `` Kertyschoo !"
Mr.
Mcperson_0 was after him in no time , AND tried to put his foot upon person_1 , who jumped out of a window , upsetting three plants.
The window was too small for Mr.
Mcperson_0 , and he was tired of running after person_1.
He went back to his work.
PETER sat down to rest ; he was out of breath and trembling with fright , and he had not the least idea which way to go.
Also he was very damp with sitting in that can.
After a time he began to wander about , going lippity -- lippity -- not very fast , and looking all around.
HE found a door in a wall ; but it was locked , and there was no room for a fat little rabbit to squeeze underneath.
An old mouse was running in and out over the stone doorstep , carrying peas and beans to her family in the wood.
person_1 asked her the way to the gate , but she had such a large pea in her mouth that she could not answer.
She only shook her head at him.
person_1 began to cry.
THEN he tried to find his way straight across the garden , but he became more and more puzzled.
Presently , he came to a pond where Mr.
Mcperson_0 filled his water-cans.
A white cat was staring at some gold-fish ; she sat very , very still , but now and then the tip of her tail twitched as if it were alive.
person_1 thought it best to go away without speaking to her ; he had heard about cats from his cousin , little Benjamin Bunny.
HE went back towards the tool-shed , but suddenly , quite close to him , he heard the noise of a hoe -- scr-r-ritch , scratch , scratch , scritch.
person_1 scuttered underneath the bushes.
But presently , as nothing happened , he came out , and climbed upon a wheelbarrow , and peeped over.
The first thing he saw was Mr.
Mcperson_0 hoeing onions.
His back was turned towards person_1 , and beyond him was the gate ! PETER got down very quietly off the wheelbarrow , and started running as fast as he could go , along a straight walk behind some black-currant bushes.
Mr.
Mcperson_0 caught sight of him at the corner , but person_1 did not care.
He slipped underneath the gate , and was safe at last in the wood outside the garden.
MR.
McGREGOR hung up the little jacket and the shoes for a scare-crow to frighten the blackbirds.
PETER never stopped running or looked behind him till he got home to the big fir-tree.
He was so tired that he flopped down upon the nice soft sand on the floor of the rabbit-hole , and shut his eyes.
His mother was busy cooking ; she wondered what he had done with his clothes.
It was the second little jacket and pair of shoes that person_1 had lost in a fortnight ! I AM sorry to say that person_1 was not very well during the evening.
His mother put him to bed , and made some camomile tea ; and she gave a dose of it to person_1 ! `` One table-spoonful to be taken at bed-time"
BUT Flopsy , Mopsy , and Cotton-tail had bread and milk and blackberries , for supper.
The End"
ONCE upon a time there was a very beautiful doll 's house ; it was red brick with white windows , and it had real muslin curtains and a front door and a chimney.
IT belonged to two Dolls called Lucinda and Jane ; at least it belonged to Lucinda , but she never ordered meals.
Jane was the Cook ; but she never did any cooking , because the dinner had been bought ready-made , in a box full of shavings.
THERE were two red lobsters , and a ham , a fish , a pudding , and some pears and oranges.
They would not come off the plates , but they were extremely beautiful.
ONE morning Lucinda and Jane had gone out for a drive in the doll 's perambulator.
There was no one in the nursery , and it was very quiet.
Presently there was a little scuffling , scratching noise in a corner near the fireplace , where there was a hole under the skirting-board.
Tom person_0 put out his head for a moment , and then popped it in again.
Tom person_0 was a mouse.
A MINUTE afterwards person_2 , his wife , put her head out , too ; and when she saw that there was no one in the nursery , she ventured out on the oilcloth under the coal-box.
THE doll 's house stood at the other side of the fireplace.
Tom person_0 and person_2 went cautiously across the hearth-rug.
They pushed the front door -- it was not fast.
TOM THUMB and person_2 went up-stairs and peeped into the dining - room.
Then they squeaked with joy ! Such a lovely dinner was laid out upon the table ! There were tin spoons , and lead knives and forks , and two dolly-chairs -- all SO convenient ! TOM THUMB set to work at once to carve the ham.
It was a beautiful shiny yellow , streaked with red.
The knife crumpled up and hurt him ; he put his finger in his mouth.
`` It is not boiled enough ; it is hard.
You have a try , person_2"
HUNCA MUNCA stood up in her chair , and chopped at the ham with another lead knife.
`` It 's as hard as the hams at the cheesemonger 's ,"
said person_2.
THE ham broke off the plate with a jerk , and rolled under the table.
`` Let it alone ,"
said Tom person_0 ; `` give me some fish , person_2 !"
HUNCA MUNCA tried every tin spoon in turn ; the fish was glued to the dish.
Then Tom person_0 lost his temper.
He put the ham in the middle of the floor , and hit it with the tongs and with the shovel -- bang , bang , smash , smash ! The ham flew all into pieces , for underneath the shiny paint it was made of nothing but plaster ! THEN there was no end to the rage and disappointment of Tom person_0 and person_2.
They broke up the pudding , the lobsters , the pears , and the oranges.
As the fish would not come off the plate , they put it into the red-hot crinkly paper fire in the kitchen ; but it would not burn either.
TOM THUMB went up the kitchen chimney and looked out at the top -- there was no soot.
WHILE Tom person_0 was up the chimney , person_2 had another disappointment.
She found some tiny canisters upon the dresser , labeled `` Rice ,"
`` Coffee"
`` Sago"
; but when she turned them upside down there was nothing inside except red and blue beads.
THEN those mice set to work to do all the mischief they could -- especially Tom person_0 ! He took Jane 's clothes out of the chest of drawers in her bedroom , and he threw them out of the top - floor window.
But person_2 had a frugal mind.
After pulling half the feathers out of Lucinda 's bolster , she remembered that she herself was in want of a feather-bed.
WITH Tom person_0 's assistance she carried the bolster down-stairs and across the hearth-rug.
It was difficult to squeeze the bolster into the mouse-hole ; but they managed it somehow.
THEN person_2 went back and fetched a chair , a bookcase , a bird-cage , and several small odds and ends.
The bookcase and the bird-cage refused to go into the mouse-hole.
HUNCA MUNCA left them behind the coal - box , and went to fetch a cradle.
HUNCA MUNCA was just returning with another chair , when suddenly there was a noise of talking outside upon the landing.
The mice rushed back to their hole , and the dolls came into the nursery.
WHAT a sight met the eyes of Jane and Lucinda ! Lucinda sat upon the upset kitchen stove and stared , and Jane leaned against the kitchen dresser and smiled ; but neither of them made any remark.
THE bookcase and the bird - cage were rescued from under the coal-box ; but person_2 has got the cradle and some of Lucinda 's clothes.
SHE also has some useful pots and pans , and several other things.
THE little girl that the doll 's house belonged to said : `` I will get a doll dressed like a policeman !"
BUT the nurse said : `` I will set a mouse-trap !"
SO that is the story of the two Bad Mice.
But they were not so very , very naughty after all , because Tom person_0 paid for everything he broke.
He found a crooked sixpence under the hearth-rug ; and upon Christmas Eve he and person_2 stuffed it into one of the stockings of Lucinda and Jane.
AND very early every morning -- before anybody is awake -- person_2 comes with her dust-pan and her broom to sweep the Dollies ' house ! The End"
Great ships had been sent up towards the North Pole , to explore the most distant coasts , and to try how far men might penetrate up yonder.
For more than a year they had already been pushing their way among ice , and snow , and mist , and their crews had endured many hardships ; and now the winter was come , and the sun had entirely disappeared from those regions.
For many many weeks there would now be a long night.
All around , as far as the eye could reach , was a single field of ice ; the ships had been made fast to it , and the snow had piled itself up in great masses , and of these huts had been built in the form of beehives , some of them spacious as the old `` Hun 's Graves"
-- others only containing room enough to hold two or four men.
But it was not dark , for the northern lights flamed red and blue , like a great continual firework ; and the snow glistened and gleamed , so that the night here was one long , flaming , twilight hour.
When the gleam was brightest , the natives came in crowds , wonderful to behold in their rough , hairy , fur dresses ; and they rode in sledges formed of blocks of ice , and brought with them furs and peltry in great bundles , so that the snow houses were furnished with warm carpets ; and , in turn , the furs also served for coverlets when the sailors went to bed under their roofs of snow , while outside it froze in far different fashion than here with us in the winter.
In our regions it was still the late autumn-time ; and they thought of that up yonder , and often pictured to themselves the yellow leaves on the trees of home.
The clock showed that it was evening , and time to go to sleep ; and in the huts two men already had stretched themselves out , seeking rest.
The younger of these had his best , dearest treasure , that he had brought from home -- the person_0 , which his grandmother had given him on his departure.
Every night the sacred volume rested beneath his head , and he knew from his childish years what was written in it.
Every day he read in the book , and often the holy words came into his mind where it is written , `` If I take the wings of the morning , and flee into the uttermost parts of the sea , even there Thou art with me , and Thy right hand shall uphold me ;"
and , under the influence of the eternal word and of the true faith , he closed his eyes , and sleep came upon him , and dreams -- the manifestation of Providence to the spirit.
The soul lived and was working while the body was enjoying its rest : he felt this life , and it seemed to him as if dear old well-known melodies were sounding ; as if the mild breezes of summer were playing around him ; and over his bed he beheld a brightness , as if something were shining in through the crust of snow.
He lifted up his head , and behold , the bright gleam was no ripple down from the snowy roof , but came from the mighty pinions of an angel , into whose beaming face he was gazing.
As if from the cup of a lily the angel arose from among the leaves of the person_0 , and stretching out his arm , the walls of the snow hut sunk down around , as though they had been a light airy veil of mist ; the green meadows and hills of home , and its ruddy woods , lay spread around him in the quiet sunshine of a beauteous autumn day ; the nest of the stork was empty , but ripe fruit still clung to the wild apple tree , although the leaves , had fallen ; the red hips gleamed , and the magpie whistled in the green cage over the window of the peasant 's cottage that was his home ; the magpie whistled the tune that had been taught him , and the grandmother hung green food around the cage , as he , the grandson , had been accustomed to do ; and the daughter of the blacksmith , very young and fair , stood by the well drawing water , and nodded to the granddame , and the old woman nodded to her , and showed her a letter that had come from a long way off.
That very morning the letter had arrived from the cold regions of the North -- there where the grandson was resting in the hand of God.
And they smiled and they wept ; and he , far away among the ice and snow , under the pinions of the angel , he , too , smiled and wept with them in spirit , for he saw them and heard them.
And from the letter they read aloud the words of Holy Writ , that in the uttermost parts of the sea HIS right hand would be a stay and a safety.
And the sound of a beauteous hymn welled up all around ; and the angel spread his wings like a veil over the sleeping youth.
The vision had fled , and it grew dark in the snow hut ; but the person_0 rested beneath his head , and faith and hope dwelt in his soul.
God was with him ; and he carried home about with him in his heart , even in the uttermost parts of the sea"
by Brothers Grimm One very fine day it came to pass that the good God wished to enjoy himself in the heavenly garden , and took all the apostles and saints with him , so that no one stayed in heaven but Saint person_1.
The person_0 had commanded him to let no one in during his absence , so person_1 stood by the door and kept watch.
Before long some one knocked.
person_1 asked who was there , and what he wanted ? `` I am a poor , honest tailor who prays for admission ,"
replied a smooth voice.
`` Honest indeed ,"
said person_1 , `` like the thief on the gallows ! Thou hast been light-fingered and hast snipped folks ' clothes away.
Thou wilt not get into heaven.
The person_0 hath forbidden me to let any one in while he is out"
`` Come , do be merciful ,"
cried the tailor.
`` Little scraps which fall off the table of their own accord are not stolen , and are not worth speaking about.
Look , I am lame , and have blisters on my feet with walking here , I can not possibly turn back again.
Only let me in , and I will do all the rough work.
I will carry the children , and wash their clothes , and wash and clean the benches on which they have been playing , and patch all their torn clothes"
Saint person_1 let himself be moved by pity , and opened the door of heaven just wide enough for the lame tailor to slip his lean body in.
He was forced to sit down in a corner behind the door , and was to stay quietly and peaceably there , in order that the person_0 , when he returned , might not observe him and be angry.
The tailor obeyed , but once when Saint person_1 went outside the door , he got up , and full of curiosity , went round about into every corner of heaven , and inspected the arrangement of every place.
At length he came to a spot where many beautiful and delightful chairs were standing , and in the midst was a seat all of gold which was set with shining jewels , likewise it was much higher than the other chairs , and a footstool of gold was before it.
It was , however , the seat on which the person_0 sat when he was at home , and from which he could see everything which happened on earth.
The tailor stood still , and looked at the seat for a long time , for it pleased him better than all else.
At last he could master his curiosity no longer , and climbed up and seated himself in the chair.
Then he saw everything which was happening on earth , and observed an ugly old woman who was standing washing by the side of a stream , secretly laying two veils on one side for herself.
The sight of this made the tailor so angry that he laid hold of the golden footstool , and threw it down to earth through heaven , at the old thief.
As , however , he could not bring the stool back again , he slipped quietly out of the chair , seated himself in his place behind the door , and behaved as if he had never stirred from the spot.
When the person_0 and master came back again with his heavenly companions , he did not see the tailor behind the door , but when he seated himself on his chair the footstool was missing.
He asked Saint person_1 what had become of the stool , but he did not know.
Then he asked if he had let anyone come in.
`` I know of no one who has been here ,"
answered person_1 , `` but a lame tailor , who is still sitting behind the door"
Then the person_0 had the tailor brought before him , and asked him if he had taken away the stool , and where he had put it ? `` Oh , person_0 ,"
answered the tailor joyously , `` I threw it in my anger down to earth at an old woman whom I saw stealing two veils at the washing"
`` Oh , thou knave ,"
said the person_0 , `` were I to judge as thou judgest , how dost thou think thou couldst have escaped so long ? I should long ago have had no chairs , benches , seats , nay , not even an oven-fork , but should have thrown everything down at the sinners.
Henceforth thou canst stay no longer in heaven , but must go outside the door again.
Then go where thou wilt.
No one shall give punishment here , but I alone , the person_0"
person_1 was obliged to take the tailor out of heaven again , and as he had torn shoes , and feet covered with blisters , he took a stick in his hand , and went to `` Wait-a-bit ,"
where the good soldiers sit and make merry"
`` Along the margin of the shore stretches a forest of firs and beeches , and fresh and fragrant is this wood ; hundreds of nightingales visit it every spring.
Close beside it is the sea , the ever-changing sea , and between the two is placed the broad high-road.
One carriage after another rolls over it ; but I did not follow them , for my eye loves best to rest upon one point.
A Hun 's Grave -LRB- 2aaaaa -RRB- aaa lies there , and the sloe and blackthorn grow luxuriantly among the stones.
Here is true poetry in nature.
-LRB- Footnote 2 : Large mounds similar to the `` barrows"
found in Britain , are thus designated in Germany and the North.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` And how do you think men appreciate this poetry ? I will tell you what I heard there last evening and during the night.
`` First , two rich landed proprietors came driving by.
` Those are glorious trees ! ' said the first.
` Certainly ; there are ten loads of firewood in each , ' observed the other : ` it will be a hard winter , and last year we got fourteen dollars a load ' -- and they were gone.
` The road here is wretched , ' observed another man who drove past.
` That 's the fault of those horrible trees , ' replied his neighbor ; ` there is no free current of air ; the wind can only come from the sea ' -- and they were gone.
The stage coach went rattling past.
All the passengers were asleep at this beautiful spot.
The postillion blew his horn , but he only thought , ` I can play capitally.
It sounds well here.
I wonder if those in there like it ? ' -- and the stage coach vanished.
Then two young fellows came gallopping up on horseback.
There 's youth and spirit in the blood here ! thought I ; and , indeed , they looked with a smile at the moss-grown hill and thick forest.
` I should not dislike a walk here with the miller 's Christine , ' said one -- and they flew past.
`` The flowers scented the air ; every breath of air was hushed : it seemed as if the sea were a part of the sky that stretched above the deep valley.
A carriage rolled by.
Six people were sitting in it.
Four of them were asleep ; the fifth was thinking of his new summer coat , which would suit him admirably ; the sixth turned to the coachman and asked him if there were anything remarkable connected with yonder heap of stones.
` No , ' replied the coachman , ` it 's only a heap of stones ; but the trees are remarkable.
' ` How so ? ' ` Why , I 'll tell you how they are very remarkable.
You see , in winter , when the snow lies very deep , and has hidden the whole road so that nothing is to be seen , those trees serve me for a landmark.
I steer by them , so as not to drive into the sea ; and you see that is why the trees are remarkable.
' `` Now came a painter.
He spoke not a word , but his eyes sparkled.
He began to whistle.
At this the nightingales sang louder than ever.
` Hold your tongues ! ' he cried testily ; and he made accurate notes of all the colors and transitions -- blue , and lilac , and dark brown.
` That will make a beautiful picture , ' he said.
He took it in just as a mirror takes in a view ; and as he worked he whistled a march of Rossini.
And last of all came a poor girl.
She laid aside the burden she carried , and sat down to rest upon the Hun 's Grave.
Her pale handsome face was bent in a listening attitude towards the forest.
Her eyes brightened , she gazed earnestly at the sea and the sky , her hands were folded , and I think she prayed , ` Our Father.
' She herself could not understand the feeling that swept through her , but I know that this minute , and the beautiful natural scene , will live within her memory for years , far more vividly and more truly than the painter could portray it with his colors on paper.
My rays followed her till the morning dawn kissed her brow"
The air was clear again.
Several evenings had passed , and the Moon was in the first quarter.
Again he gave me an outline for a sketch.
Listen to what he told me.
`` I have followed the polar bird and the swimming whale to the eastern coast of Greenland.
Gaunt ice-covered rocks and dark clouds hung over a valley , where dwarf willows and barberry bushes stood clothed in green.
The blooming lychnis exhaled sweet odours.
My light was faint , my face pale as the water lily that , torn from its stem , has been drifting for weeks with the tide.
The crown-shaped Northern Light burned fiercely in the sky.
Its ring was broad , and from its circumference the rays shot like whirling shafts of fire across the whole sky , flashing in changing radiance from green to red.
The inhabitants of that icy region were assembling for dance and festivity ; but , accustomed to this glorious spectacle , they scarcely deigned to glance at it.
` Let us leave the souls of the dead to their ball-play with the heads of the walruses , ' they thought in their superstition , and they turned their whole attention to the song and dance.
In the midst of the circle , and divested of his furry cloak , stood a Greenlander , with a small pipe , and he played and sang a song about catching the seal , and the chorus around chimed in with , ' _ Eia , Eia , Ah.
_ ' And in their white furs they danced about in the circle , till you might fancy it was a polar bear 's ball.
`` And now a Court of Judgment was opened.
Those Greenlanders who had quarrelled stepped forward , and the offended person chanted forth the faults of his adversary in an extempore song , turning them sharply into ridicule , to the sound of the pipe and the measure of the dance.
The defendant replied with satire as keen , while the audience laughed , and gave their verdict.
The rocks heaved , the glaciers melted , and great masses of ice and snow came crashing down , shivering to fragments as they fell : it was a glorious Greenland summer night.
A hundred paces away , under the open tent of hides , lay a sick man.
Life still flowed through his warm blood , but still he was to die -- he himself felt it , and all who stood round him knew it also ; therefore his wife was already sowing round him the shroud of furs , that she might not afterwards be obliged to touch the dead body.
And she asked , ` Wilt thou be buried on the rock , in the firm snow ? I will deck the spot with thy _ kayak _ , and thy arrows , and the _ angekokk _ shall dance over it.
Or wouldst thou rather be buried in the sea ? ' ` In the sea , ' he whispered , and nodded with a mournful smile.
` Yes , it is a pleasant summer tent , the sea , ' observed the wife.
` Thousands of seals sport there , the walrus shall lie at thy feet , and the hunt will be safe and merry ! ' And the yelling children tore the outspread hide from the window-hole , that the dead man might be carried to the ocean , the billowy ocean , that had given him food in life , and that now , in death , was to afford him a place of rest.
For his monument , he had the floating , ever-changing icebergs , whereon the seal sleeps , while the storm bird flies round their gleaming summits !"
nose went sniffle , sniffle , snuffle , and her eyes went twinkle , twinkle ; and she fetched another hot iron from the fire.
`` THERE 'S one of my pocket-handkins !"
cried person_0 -- `` and there 's my pinny !"
person_1.
Tiggy-winkle ironed it , and goffered it , and shook out the frills.
`` Oh that IS lovely !"
said person_0.
`` AND what are those long yellow things with fingers like gloves ?"
`` Oh , that 's a pair of stockings belonging to Sally Henny - penny -- look how she 's worn the heels out with scratching in the yard ! She 'll very soon go barefoot !"
said person_1.
Tiggy - winkle.
`` WHY , there 's another handkersniff -- but it is n't mine ; it 's red ?"
`` Oh no , if you please 'm ; that one belongs to old person_1.
Rabbit ; and it DID so smell of onions ! I 've had to wash it separately , I ca n't get out the smell"
`` There 's another one of mine ,"
said person_0.
`` WHAT are those funny little white things ?"
`` That 's a pair of mittens belonging to Tabby Kitten ; I only have to iron them ; she washes them herself"
`` There 's my last pocket - handkin !"
said person_0.
`` AND what are you dipping into the basin of starch ?"
`` They 're little dicky shirt - fronts belonging to Tom Titmouse -- most terrible particular !"
said person_1.
Tiggy-winkle.
`` Now I 've finished my ironing ; I 'm going to air some clothes"
`` WHAT are these dear soft fluffy things ?"
said person_0.
`` Oh those are wooly coats belonging to the little lambs at Skelghyl"
`` Will their jackets take off ?"
asked Lucy.
`` Oh yes , if you please 'm ; look at the sheep-mark on the shoulder.
And here 's one marked for Gatesgarth , and three that come from Little-town.
They 're ALWAYS marked at washing !"
said person_1.
Tiggy - winkle.
AND she hung up all sorts and sizes of clothes -- small brown coats of mice ; and one velvety black mole - skin waist-coat ; and a red tail - coat with no tail belonging to Squirrel Nutkin ; and a very much shrunk blue jacket belonging to Peter Rabbit ; and a petticoat , not marked , that had gone lost in the washing -- and at last the basket was empty ! THEN person_1.
Tiggy-winkle made tea -- a cup for herself and a cup for person_0.
They sat before the fire on a bench and looked sideways at one another.
person_1.
Tiggy-winkle 's hand , holding the tea-cup , was very very brown , and very very wrinkly with the soap-suds ; and all through her gown and her cap , there were HAIR-PINS sticking wrong end out ; so that person_0 did n't like to sit too near her.
WHEN they had finished tea , they tied up the clothes in bundles ; and person_0 's pocket-handkerchiefs were folded up inside her clean pinny , and fastened with a silver safety-pin.
And then they made up the fire with turf , and came out and locked the door , and hid the key under the door-sill.
THEN away down the hill trotted person_0 and person_1.
Tiggy-winkle with the bundles of clothes ! All the way down the path little animals came out of the fern to meet them ; the very first that they met were Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny ! AND she gave them their nice clean clothes ; and all the little animals and birds were so very much obliged to dear person_1.
Tiggy-winkle.
SO that at the bottom of the hill when they came to the stile , there was nothing left to carry except person_0 's one little bundle.
LUCIE scrambled up the stile with the bundle in her hand ; and then she turned to say `` Good-night ,"
and to thank the washer-woman -- But what a VERY odd thing ! person_1.
Tiggy-winkle had not waited either for thanks or for the washing bill ! She was running running running up the hill -- and where was her white frilled cap ? and her shawl ? and her gown -- and her petticoat ? AND how small she had grown -- and how brown -- and covered with PRICKLES ! Why ! person_1.
Tiggy-winkle was nothing but a HEDGEHOG.
-LRB- Now some people say that little person_0 had been asleep upon the stile -- but then how could she have found three clean pocket-handkins and a pinny , pinned with a silver safety-pin ? And besides -- _ I _ have seen that door into the back of the hill called Cat Bells -- and besides _ I _ am very well acquainted with dear person_1.
Tiggy-winkle ! -RRB-"
IT is said that the effect of eating too much lettuce is `` soporific"
_ I _ have never felt sleepy after eating lettuces ; but then _ I _ am not a rabbit.
They certainly had a very soporific effect upon the person_0 Bunnies ! WHEN Benjamin Bunny grew up , he married his Cousin person_0.
They had a large family , and they were very improvident and cheerful.
I do not remember the separate names of their children ; they were generally called the `` person_0 Bunnies"
AS there was not always quite enough to eat , -- Benjamin used to borrow cabbages from person_0 's brother , Peter Rabbit , who kept a nursery garden.
SOMETIMES Peter Rabbit had no cabbages to spare.
WHEN this happened , the person_0 Bunnies went across the field to a rubbish heap , in the ditch outside person_2.
Mcperson_1 's garden.
MR.
McGREGOR 'S rubbish heap was a mixture.
There were jam pots and paper bags , and mountains of chopped grass from the mowing machine -LRB- which always tasted oily -RRB- , and some rotten vegetable marrows and an old boot or two.
One day -- oh joy ! -- there were a quantity of overgrown lettuces , which had `` shot"
into flower.
THE person_0 Bunnies simply stuffed lettuces.
By degrees , one after another , they were overcome with slumber , and lay down in the mown grass.
Benjamin was not so much overcome as his children.
Before going to sleep he was sufficiently wide awake to put a paper bag over his head to keep off the flies.
THE little person_0 Bunnies slept delightfully in the warm sun.
From the lawn beyond the garden came the distant clacketty sound of the mowing machine.
The blue - bottles buzzed about the wall , and a little old mouse picked over the rubbish among the jam pots.
-LRB- I can tell you her name , she was called Thomasina Tittlemouse , a woodmouse with a long tail.
-RRB- SHE rustled across the paper bag , and awakened Benjamin Bunny.
The mouse apologized profusely , and said that she knew Peter Rabbit.
WHILE she and Benjamin were talking , close under the wall , they heard a heavy tread above their heads ; and suddenly person_2.
Mcperson_1 emptied out a sackful of lawn mowings right upon the top of the sleeping person_0 Bunnies ! Benjamin shrank down under his paper bag.
The mouse hid in a jam pot.
THE little rabbits smiled sweetly in their sleep under the shower of grass ; they did not awake because the lettuces had been so soporific.
They dreamt that their mother person_0 was tucking them up in a hay bed.
person_2.
Mcperson_1 looked down after emptying his sack.
He saw some funny little brown tips of ears sticking up through the lawn mowings.
He stared at them for some time.
PRESENTLY a fly settled on one of them and it moved.
person_2.
Mcperson_1 climbed down on to the rubbish heap -- `` One , two , three , four ! five ! six leetle rabbits !"
said he as he dropped them into his sack.
The person_0 Bunnies dreamt that their mother was turning them over in bed.
They stirred a little in their sleep , but still they did not wake up.
MR.
McGREGOR tied up the sack and left it on the wall.
He went to put away the mowing machine.
WHILE he was gone , person_2s.
person_0 Bunny -LRB- who had remained at home -RRB- came across the field.
She looked suspiciously at the sack and wondered where everybody was ? THEN the mouse came out of her jam pot , and Benjamin took the paper bag off his head , and they told the doleful tale.
Benjamin and person_0 were in despair , they could not undo the string.
But person_2s.
Tittlemouse was a resourceful person.
She nibbled a hole in the bottom corner of the sack.
THE little rabbits were pulled out and pinched to wake them.
Their parents stuffed the empty sack with three rotten vegetable marrows , an old blacking-brush and two decayed turnips.
THEN they all hid under a bush and watched for person_2.
Mcperson_1.
MR.
McGREGOR came back and picked up the sack , and carried it off.
He carried it hanging down , as if it were rather heavy.
The person_0 Bunnies followed at a safe distance.
THEY watched him go into his house.
And then they crept up to the window to listen.
MR.
McGREGOR threw down the sack on the stone floor in a way that would have been extremely painful to the person_0 Bunnies , if they had happened to have been inside it.
They could hear him drag his chair on the flags , and chuckle -- `` One , two , three , four , five , six leetle rabbits !"
said person_2.
Mcperson_1.
`` EH ? What 's that ? What have they been spoiling now ?"
enquired person_2s.
Mcperson_1.
`` One , two , three , four , five , six leetle fat rabbits !"
repeated person_2.
Mcperson_1 , counting on his fingers -- `` one , two , three --"
`` Do n't you be silly ; what do you mean , you silly old man ?"
`` In the sack ! one , two , three , four , five , six !"
replied person_2.
Mcperson_1.
-LRB- The youngest person_0 Bunny got upon the window-sill.
-RRB- MRS.
McGREGOR took hold of the sack and felt it.
She said she could feel six , but they must be OLD rabbits , because they were so hard and all different shapes.
`` Not fit to eat ; but the skins will do fine to line my old cloak"
`` Line your old cloak ?"
shouted person_2.
Mcperson_1 -- `` I shall sell them and buy myself baccy !"
`` Rabbit tobacco ! I shall skin them and cut off their heads"
MRS.
McGREGOR untied the sack and put her hand inside.
When she felt the vegetables she became very very angry.
She said that person_2.
Mcperson_1 had `` done it a purpose"
AND person_2.
Mcperson_1 was very angry too.
One of the rotten marrows came flying through the kitchen window , and hit the youngest person_0 Bunny.
It was rather hurt.
THEN Benjamin and person_0 thought that it was time to go home.
SO person_2.
Mcperson_1 did not get his tobacco , and person_2s.
Mcperson_1 did not get her rabbit skins.
But next Christmas Thomasina Tittlemouse got a present of enough rabbit-wool to make herself a cloak and a hood , and a handsome muff and a pair of warm mittens.
The End"
IF once in love , you 'll soon invention find person_0 not to cunning tricks and freaks be blind ; The youngest ` prentice , when he feels the dart , Grows wondrous shrewd , and studies wily art.
This passion never , we perceive , remains In want from paucity of scheming brains.
The god of hearts so well exerts his force , That he receives his dues as things of course.
A bucking-tub , of which a tale is told , Will prove the case , and this I 'll now unfold ; Particulars I heard some days ago , From one who seemed each circumstance to know.
WITHIN a country town , no matter where , Its appellation nothing would declare , A cooper and his wife , whose name was Nan , Kept house , and through some difficulties ran.
Though scanty were their means , LOVE thither flew ; person_0 with him brought a friend to take a view ; 'Twas Cuckoldom accompanied the boy , Two gods most intimate , who like to toy , person_0 , never ceremonious , seek to please Go where they will , still equally at ease ; ` Tis all for them good lodging , fare , or bed ; person_0 , hut or palace , pleasantly they tread.
IT happened then , a spark this fair caressed , person_0 , when he hoped most fully to be blessed , When all was ready to complete the scene , person_0 on a point : -- if naught should intervene Not NAMED howe'er will quite enough suffice , When suddenly the husband , by surprise , Returned from drinking at an ale-house near , just when , just when : -- the rest is pretty clear.
THEY curst his coming ; trouble o ` er them spread ; Naught could be done but hide the lover 's head ; Beneath a bucking-tub , in utmost haste , Within the court , our gay gallant was placed.
THE husband , as he entered , loudly cried , I 've sold our bucking-tub.
The wife replied , What price , I pray ? -- Three crowns rejoined the man ; Then thou ` rt a silly ass , said mistress Nan ; To-day , by my address , I 've gained a crown , person_0 sold the same for twenty shillings down : My bargain luckily the first was made ; The buyer , -LRB- who of flaws is much afraid -RRB- Examines now if ev ` ry part is tight ; He 's in the tub to see if all be right.
What , blockhead , would ` st thou do without thy wife ? Thou huntest taverns while she works for life ; But necessary ` tis for her to act , When thou art out , or naught would be exact.
No pleasure ever yet received have I ; But take my word , to get it now I 'll try.
Gallants are plenty ; husbands should have wives ; That , like themselves , lead gay or sober lives.
I PRYTHEE softly , wife , the husband said ; Come , come , sir , leave the tub , there 's naught to dread ; When you are out , I 'll ev ` ry quarter scrape , Then try if water from it can escape ; I 'll warrant it to be as good as nice , person_0 nothing can be better worth the price.
OUT came the lover ; in the husband went ; Scraped here and there , and tried if any vent ; With candle in his hand looked round and round , Not dreaming once that LOVE without was found.
But nothing he could see of what was done ; person_0 while the cooper sought to overrun The various parts , and by the tub was hid , The gods already noticed thither slid ; A job was by the deities proposed , That highly pleased the couple when disclosed ; A very diff ` rent work from what within The husband had , who scraped with horrid din , person_0 rubbed , and scrubbed , and beat so very well , Fresh courage took our gay gallant and belle ; They now resumed the thread so sadly lost , When , by the cooper 's coming , all was crossed.
THE reader wo n't require to know the rest ; What passed perhaps may easily be guessed.
` Tis quite enough , my thesis I have proved ; The artful trick our pair with raptures moved.
Nor one nor t ` other was a ` prentice new ; A lover be : -- and wiles you 'll soon pursue"
Long , long ago , there lived in the province of Shinshin in Japan , a traveling monkey-man , who earned his living by taking round a monkey and showing off the animal 's tricks.
One evening the man came home in a very bad temper and told his wife to send for the butcher the next morning.
The wife was very bewildered and asked her husband : `` Why do you wish me to send for the butcher ?"
`` It 's no use taking that monkey round any longer , he 's too old and forgets his tricks.
I beat him with my stick all I know how , but he wo n't dance properly.
I must now sell him to the butcher and make what money out of him I can.
There is nothing else to be done"
The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal , and pleaded for her husband to spare the monkey , but her pleading was all in vain , the man was determined to sell him to the butcher.
Now the monkey was in the next room and overheard ever word of the conversation.
He soon understood that he was to be killed , and he said to himself : `` Barbarous , indeed , is my master ! Here I have served him faithfully for years , and instead of allowing me to end my days comfortably and in peace , he is going to let me be cut up by the butcher , and my poor body is to be roasted and stewed and eaten ? Woe is me ! What am I to do.
Ah ! a bright thought has struck me ! There is , I know , a wild bear living in the forest near by.
I have often heard tell of his wisdom.
Perhaps if I go to him and tell him the strait I am in he will give me his counsel.
I will go and try"
There was no time to lose.
The monkey slipped out of the house and ran as quickly as he could to the forest to find the boar.
The boar was at home , and the monkey began his tale of woe at once.
`` Good Mr.
Boar , I have heard of your excellent wisdom.
I am in great trouble , you alone can help me.
I have grown old in the service of my master , and because I can not dance properly now he intends to sell me to the butcher.
What do you advise me to do ? I know how clever you are !"
The boar was pleased at the flattery and determined to help the monkey.
He thought for a little while and then said : `` Has n't your master a baby ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
said the monkey , `` he has one infant son"
`` Does n't it lie by the door in the morning when your mistress begins the work of the day ? Well , I will come round early and when I see my opportunity I will seize the child and run off with it"
`` What then ?"
said the monkey.
`` Why the mother will be in a tremendous scare , and before your master and mistress know what to do , you must run after me and rescue the child and take it home safely to its parents , and you will see that when the butcher comes they wo n't have the heart to sell you"
The monkey thanked the boar many times and then went home.
He did not sleep much that night , as you may imagine , for thinking of the morrow.
His life depended on whether the boar 's plan succeeded or not.
He was the first up , waiting anxiously for what was to happen.
It seemed to him a very long time before his master 's wife began to move about and open the shutters to let in the light of day.
Then all happened as the boar had planned.
The mother placed her child near the porch as usual while she tidied up the house and got her breakfast ready.
The child was crooning happily in the morning sunlight , dabbing on the mats at the play of light and shadow.
Suddenly there was a noise in the porch and a loud cry from the child.
The mother ran out from the kitchen to the spot , only just in time to see the boar disappearing through the gate with her child in its clutch.
She flung out her hands with a loud cry of despair and rushed into the inner room where her husband was still sleeping soundly.
He sat up slowly and rubbed his eyes , and crossly demanded what his wife was making all that noise about.
By the time that the man was alive to what had happened , and they both got outside the gate , the boar had got well away , but they saw the monkey running after the thief as hard as his legs would carry him.
Both the man and wife were moved to admiration at the plucky conduct of the sagacious monkey , and their gratitude knew no bounds when the faithful monkey brought the child safely back to their arms.
`` There !"
said the wife.
`` This is the animal you want to kill -- if the monkey had n't been here we should have lost our child forever"
`` You are right , wife , for once ,"
said the man as he carried the child into the house.
`` You may send the butcher back when he comes , and now give us all a good breakfast and the monkey too"
When the butcher arrived he was sent away with an order for some boar 's meat for the evening dinner , and the monkey was petted and lived the rest of his days in peace , nor did his master ever strike him again"
Charles Dickens once told us about a pig , and since that time we are in a good humor if we only hear one grunt.
St.
Antony took the pig under his protection ; and when we think of the prodigal son we always associate with him the idea of feeding swine ; and it was in front of a pig-sty that a certain carriage stopped in Sweden , about which I am going to talk.
The farmer had his pig-sty built out towards the high road , close by his house , and it was a wonderful pig-sty.
It was an old state carriage.
The seats had been taken out and the wheels taken off , and so the body of the old coach lay on the ground , and four pigs were shut up inside it.
I wonder if these were the first that had ever been there ? That point could not certainly be determined ; but that it had been a real state coach everything bore witness , even to the damask rag that hung down from the roof ; everything spoke of better days.
`` Humph ! humph !"
said the occupants , and the coach creaked and groaned ; for it had come to a mournful end.
`` The beautiful has departed ,"
it sighed -- or at least it might have done so.
We came back in autumn.
The coach was there still , but the pigs were gone.
They were playing the grand lords out in the woods.
Blossoms and leaves were gone from all the trees , and storm and rain ruled , and gave them neither peace nor rest ; and the birds of passage had flown.
`` The beautiful has departed ! This was the glorious green wood , but the song of the birds and the warm sunshine are gone ! gone !"
Thus said the mournful voice that creaked in the lofty branches of the trees , and it sounded like a deep-drawn sigh , a sigh from the bosom of the wild rose tree , and of him who sat there ; it was the rose king.
Do you know him ? He is all beard , the finest reddish-green beard ; he is easily recognized.
Go up to the wild rose bushes , and when in autumn all the flowers have faded from them , and only the wild hips remain , you will often find under them a great red-green moss flower ; and that is the rose king.
A little green leaf grows up out of his head , and that 's his feather.
He is the only man of his kind on the rose bush ; and he it was who sighed.
-LRB- Illustration : THE PIGS AT HOME IN THE OLD STATE COACH.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Gone ! gone ! The beautiful is gone ! The roses have faded , and the leaves fall down ! It 's wet here ! it 's boisterous here ! The birds who used to sing are dumb , and the pigs go out hunting for acorns , and the pigs are the lords of the forest !"
The nights were cold and the days were misty ; but , for all that , the raven sat on the branch and sang , `` Good ! good !"
Raven and crow sat on the high bough ; and they had a large family , who all said , `` Good ! good !"
and the majority is always right.
Under the high trees , in the hollow , was a great puddle , and here the pigs reclined , great and small.
They found the place so inexpressibly lovely ! `` Oui ! oui !"
they all exclaimed.
That was all the French they knew , but even that was something ; and they were so clever and so fat ! The old ones lay quite still , and reflected ; the young ones were very busy , and were not quiet a moment.
One little porker had a twist in his tail like a ring , and this ring was his mothers 's pride : she thought all the rest were looking at the ring , and thinking only of the ring ; but that they were not doing ; they were thinking of themselves and of what was useful , and what was the use of the wood.
They had always heard that the acorns they ate grew at the roots of the trees , and accordingly they had grubbed up the ground ; but there came quite a little pig -- it 's always the young ones who come out with their new-fangled notions -- who declared that the acorns fell down from the branches , for one had just fallen down on his head , and the idea had struck him at once , afterwards he had made observations , and now was quite certain on the point.
The old ones put their heads together.
`` Umph !"
they said , `` umph ! The glory has departed : the twittering of the birds is all over : we want fruit ; whatever 's good to eat is good , and we eat everything"
`` Oui ! oui !"
chimed in all the rest.
But the mother now looked at her little porker , the one with the ring in his tail , `` One must not overlook the beautiful ,"
she said.
`` Good ! good !"
cried the crow , and flew down from the tree to try and get an appointment as nightingale ; for some one must be appointed ; and the crow obtained the office directly.
`` Gone ! gone !"
sighed the rose king.
`` All the beautiful is gone !"
It was boisterous , it was gray , cold , and windy ; and through the forest and over the field swept the rain in long dark streaks.
Where is the bird who sang , where are the flowers upon the meadow , and the sweet berries of the wood ? Gone ! gone ! Then a light gleamed from the forester 's house.
It was lit up like a star , and threw its long ray among the trees.
A song sounded forth out of the house ! Beautiful children played there round the old grandfather.
He sat with the Bible on his knee , and read of the Creator and of a better world , and spoke of spring that would return , of the forest that would array itself in fresh green , of the roses that would bloom , the nightingale that would sing , and of the beautiful that would reign in its glory again.
But the rose king heard it not , for he sat in the cold , damp weather , and sighed , `` Gone ! gone !"
And the pigs were the lords of the forest , and the old mother sow looked proudly at her little porker with the twist in his tail.
`` There is always somebody who has a soul for the beautiful !"
she said"
In a little provincial town , in the time of the year when people say `` the evenings are drawing in ,"
there was one evening quite a social gathering in the home of a father of a family.
The weather was still mild and warm.
The lamp gleamed on the table ; the long curtains hung down in folds before the open windows , by which stood many flower-pots ; and outside , beneath the dark blue sky , was the most beautiful moonshine.
But they were not talking about this.
They were talking about the old great stone which lay below in the courtyard , close by the kitchen door , and on which the maids often laid the cleaned copper kitchen utensils that they might dry in the sun , and where the children were fond of playing.
It was , in fact , an old gravestone.
`` Yes ,"
said the master of the house , `` I believe the stone comes from the old convent churchyard ; for from the church yonder , the pulpit , the memorial boards , and the gravestones were sold.
My father bought the latter , and they were cut in two to be used as paving-stones ; but that old stone was kept back , and has been lying in the courtyard ever since"
-LRB- Illustration : PREBEN SCHWANE AND HIS WIFE MARTHA.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` One can very well see that it is a gravestone ,"
observed the eldest of the children ; `` we can still decipher on it an hour-glass and a piece of an angel ; but the inscription which stood below it is quite effaced , except that you may read the name of _ person_0 _ , and a great _ S _ close behind it , and a little farther down the name of _ Martha _.
But nothing more can be distinguished , and even that is only plain when it has been raining , or when we have washed the stone.
`` On my word , that must be the gravestone of person_0 Schwane and his wife !"
These words were spoken by an old man ; so old , that he might well have been the grandfather of all who were present in the room.
`` Yes , they were one of the last pairs that were buried in the old churchyard of the convent.
They were an honest old couple.
I can remember them from the days of my boyhood.
Every one knew them , and every one esteemed them.
They were the oldest pair here in the town.
The people declared that they had more than a tubful of gold ; and yet they went about very plainly dressed , in the coarsest stuffs , but always with splendidly clean linen.
They were a fine old pair , person_0 and Martha ! When both of them sat on the bench at the top of the steep stone stairs in front of the house , with the old linden tree spreading its branches above them , and nodded at one in their kind gentle way , it seemed quite to do one good.
They were very kind to the poor ; they fed them and clothed them ; and there was judgment in their benevolence and true Christianity.
The old woman died first : that day is still quite clear before my mind.
I was a little boy , and had accompanied my father over there , and we were just there when she fell asleep.
The old man was very much moved , and wept like a child.
The corpse lay in the room next to the one where we sat ; and he spoke to my father and to a few neighbors who were there , and said how lonely it would be now in his house , and how good and faithful she -LRB- his dead wife -RRB- had been , how many years they had wandered together through life , and how it had come about that they came to know each other and to fall in love.
I was , as I have told you , a boy , and only stood by and listened to what the others said ; but it filled me with quite a strange emotion to listen to the old man , and to watch how his cheeks gradually flushed red when he spoke of the days of their courtship , and told how beautiful she was , and how many little innocent pretexts he had invented to meet her.
And then he talked of the wedding-day , and his eyes gleamed ; he seemed to talk himself back into that time of joy.
And yet she was lying in the next room -- dead -- an old woman ; and he was an old man , speaking of the past days of hope ! Yes , yes , thus it is ! Then I was but a child , and now I am old -- as old as person_0 Schwane was then.
Time passes away , and all things change.
I can very well remember the day when she was buried , and how person_0 Schwane walked close behind the coffin.
A few years before , the couple had caused their gravestone to be prepared , and their names to be engraved on it , with the inscription , all but the date.
In the evening the stone was taken to the churchyard , and laid over the grave ; and the year afterwards it was taken up , that old person_0 Schwane might be laid to rest beside his wife.
They did not leave behind them anything like the wealth people had attributed to them : what there was went to families distantly related to them -- to people of whom until then one had known nothing.
The old wooden house , with the seat at the top of the steps , beneath the lime tree , was taken down by the corporation ; it was too old and rotten to be left standing.
Afterwards , when the same fate befell the convent church , and the graveyard was levelled , person_0 's and Martha 's tombstone was sold , like everything else , to any one who would buy it ; and that is how it has happened that this stone was not hewn in two , as many another has been , but that it still lies below in the yard as a scouring-bench for the maids and a plaything for the children.
The high-road now goes over the resting-place of old person_0 and his wife.
No one thinks of them any more"
And the old man who had told all this shook his head scornfully.
`` Forgotten ! Everything will be forgotten !"
he said.
And then they spoke in the room of other things ; but the youngest child , a boy with great serious eyes , mounted up on a chair behind the window-curtains , and looked out into the yard , where the moon was pouring its radiance over the old stone -- the old stone that had always appeared to him so tame and flat , but which lay there now like a great leaf out of a book of chronicles.
All that the boy had heard about old person_0 and his wife seemed concentrated in the stone ; and he gazed at it , and looked at the pure bright moon and up into the clear air , and it seemed as though the countenance of the Creator was beaming over His world.
`` Forgotten ! Everything will be forgotten !"
was repeated in the room.
But in that moment an invisible angel kissed the boy 's forehead , and whispered to him : `` Preserve the seed-corn that has been entrusted to thee , that it may bear fruit.
Guard it well ! Through thee , my child , the obliterated inscription on the old tombstone shall be chronicled in golden letters to future generations ! The old pair shall wander again arm-in-arm through the streets , and smile , and sit with their fresh healthy faces under the lime tree on the bench by the steep stairs , and nod at rich and poor.
The seed-corn of this hour shall ripen in the course of time to a blooming poem.
The beautiful and the good shall not be forgotten ; it shall live on in legend and in song"
EAST INDIA was besieged by an enemy who would not retire until he had received six hundred dollars.
Then the townsfolk caused it to be proclaimed by beat of drum that whosoever was able to procure the money should be burgomaster.
Now there was a poor fisherman who fished on the lake with his son , and the enemy came and took the son prisoner , and gave the father six hundred dollars for him.
So the father went and gave them to the great men of the town , and the enemy departed , and the fisherman became burgomaster.
Then it was proclaimed that whosoever did not say , `` Mr.
Burgomaster ,"
should be put to death on the gallows.
The son got away again from the enemy , and came to a great forest on a high mountain.
The mountain opened , and he went into a great enchanted castle , wherein chairs , tables , and benches were all hung with black.
Then came three young princesses who were entirely dressed in black , but had a little white on their faces ; they told him he was not to be afraid , they would not hurt him , and that he could deliver them.
He said he would gladly do that , if he did but know how.
At this , they told him he must for a whole year not speak to them and also not look at them , and what he wanted to have he was just to ask for , and if they dared give him an answer they would do so.
When he had been there for a long while he said he should like to go to his father , and they told him he might go.
He was to take with him this purse with money , put on this coat , and in a week he must be back there again.
Then he was caught up , and was instantly in East India.
He could no longer find his father in the fisherman 's hut , and asked the people where the poor fisherman could be , and they told him he must not say that , or he would come to the gallows.
Then he went to his father and said , `` Fisherman , how hast thou got here ?"
Then the father said , `` Thou must not say that , if the great men of the town knew of that , thou wouldst come to the gallows"
He , however , would not stop , and was brought to the gallows.
When he was there , he said , `` O , my masters , just give me leave to go to the old fisherman 's hut"
Then he put on his old smock-frock , and came back to the great men , and said , `` Do ye not now see ? Am I not the son of the poor fisherman ? Did I not earn bread for my father and mother in this dress ?"
Hereupon his father knew him again , and begged his pardon , and took him home with him , and then he related all that had happened to him , and how he had got into a forest on a high mountain , and the mountain had opened and he had gone into an enchanted castle , where all was black , and three young princesses had come to him who were black except a little white on their faces.
And they had told him not to fear , and that he could deliver them.
Then his mother said that might very likely not be a good thing to do , and that he ought to take a holy-water vessel with him , and drop some boiling water on their faces.
He went back again , and he was in great fear , and he dropped the water on their faces as they were sleeping , and they all turned half-white.
Then all the three princesses sprang up , and said , `` Thou accursed dog , our blood shall cry for vengeance on thee ! Now there is no man born in the world , nor will any ever be born who can set us free ! We have still three brothers who are bound by seven chains they shall tear thee to pieces"
Then there was a loud shrieking all over the castle , and he sprang out of the window , and broke his leg , and the castle sank into the earth again , the mountain shut to again , and no one knew where the castle had stood"
Anne she fancied she had only half a soul , and that her child had taken the other half down into the sea.
Never would she be able to swing herself aloft to the mercy of Heaven , till she had recovered this other half , which was now held fast in the deep water.
Anne person_0 got back to her former home , but was no longer the woman she had been : her thoughts were confused like a tangled skein ; only one thread , only one thought she had disentangled , namely , that she must carry the spectre of the sea shore to the churchyard , and dig a grave for him , that thus she might win back her soul.
Many a night she was missed from her home ; and she was always found on the sea shore , waiting for the spectre.
In this way a whole year passed by ; and then one night she vanished again , and was not to be found ; the whole of the next day was wasted in fruitless search.
Towards evening , when the clerk came into the church to toll the vesper bell , he saw by the altar Anne person_0 , who had spent the whole day there.
Her physical forces were almost exhausted , but her eyes gleamed brightly , and her cheeks had a rosy flush.
The last rays of the sun shone upon her , and gleamed over the altar on the bright buckles of the Bible which lay there , opened at the words of the prophet Joel : `` Bend your hearts , and not your garments , and turn unto the Lord !"
That was just a chance , the people said ; as many things happen by chance.
In the face of Anne person_0 , illumined by the sun , peace and rest were to be seen.
She said she was happy , for now she had conquered.
Last night the spectre of the shore , her own child , had come to her , and had said to her , `` Thou hast dug me only half a grave , but thou hast now , for a year and a day , buried me altogether in thy heart , and it is there that a mother can best hide her child !"
And then he gave her her lost soul back again , and brought her here into the church.
`` Now I am in the house of God ,"
she said , `` and in that house we are happy"
And when the sun had set , Anne person_0 's soul had risen to that region where there is no more anguish , and Anne person_0 's troubles were over"
Once upon a time there lived seven brothers and a sister.
The brothers were married , but their wives did not do the cooking for the family.
It was done by their sister , who stopped at home to cook.
The wives for this reason bore their sister-in-law much ill-will , and at length they combined together to oust her from the office of cook and general provider , so that one of themselves might obtain it.
They said , `` She does not go out to the fields to work , but remains quietly at home , and yet she has not the meals ready at the proper time"
They then called upon their person_0 , and vowing vows unto him they secured his good-will and assistance ; then they said to the person_0 , `` At midday , when our sister-in-law goes to bring water , cause it thus to happen , that on seeing her pitcher , the water shall vanish , and again slowly re-appear.
In this way she will be delayed.
Let the water not flow into her pitcher , and you may keep the maiden as your own"
At noon when she went to bring water , it suddenly dried up before her , and she began to weep.
Then after a while the water began slowly to rise.
When it reached her ankles she tried to fill her pitcher , but it would not go under the water.
Being frightened she began to wail and cry to her brother : `` Oh ! my brother , the water reaches to my ankles , Still , Oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip"
The water continued to rise until it reached her knee , when she began to wail again : `` Oh ! my brother , the water reaches to my knee , Still , Oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip"
The water continued to rise , and when it reached her waist , she cried again : `` Oh ! my brother , the water reaches to my waist , Still , Oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip"
The water still rose , and when it reached her neck she kept on crying : `` Oh ! my brother , the water reaches to my neck , Still , Oh ! my brother , the pitcher will not dip"
At length the water became so deep that she felt herself drowning , then she cried aloud : `` Oh ! my brother , the water measures a man 's height , Oh ! my brother , the pitcher begins to fill"
The pitcher filled with water , and along with it she sank and was drowned.
The person_0 then transformed her into a person_0 like himself , and carried her off.
After a time she re-appeared as a bamboo growing on the embankment of the tank in which she had been drowned.
When the bamboo had grown to an immense size , a Jogi , who was in the habit of passing that way , seeing it , said to himself , `` This will make a splendid fiddle"
So one day he brought an axe to cut it down ; but when he was about to begin , the bamboo called out , `` Do not cut at the root , cut higher up"
When he lifted his axe to cut high up the stem , the bamboo cried out , `` Do not cut near the top , cut at the root"
When the Jogi again prepared himself to cut at the root as requested , the bamboo said , `` Do not cut at the root , cut higher up ;"
and when he was about to cut higher up , it again called out to him , `` Do not cut high up , cut at the root"
The Jogi by this time felt sure that a person_0 was trying to frighten him , so becoming angry he cut down the bamboo at the root , and taking it away made a fiddle out of it.
The instrument had a superior tone and delighted all who heard it.
The Jogi carried it with him when he went a-begging , and through the influence of its sweet music he returned home every evening with a full wallet.
He now and then visited , when on his rounds , the house of the person_0 girl 's brothers , and the strains of the fiddle affected them greatly.
Some of them were moved even to tears , for the fiddle seemed to wail as one in bitter anguish.
The elder brother wished to purchase it , and offered to support the Jogi for a whole year if he would consent to part with his wonderful instrument.
The Jogi , however , knew its value , and refused to sell it.
It so happened that the Jogi some time after went to the house of a village chief , and after playing a tune or two on his fiddle asked for something to eat.
They offered to buy his fiddle and promised a high price for it , but he refused to sell it , as his fiddle brought to him his means of livelihood.
When they saw that he was not to be prevailed upon , they gave him food and a plentiful supply of liquor.
Of the latter he drank so freely that he presently became intoxicated.
While he was in this condition , they took away his fiddle , and substituted their own old one for it.
When the Jogi recovered , he missed his instrument , and suspecting that it had been stolen asked them to return it to him.
They denied having taken it , so he had to depart , leaving his fiddle behind him.
The chief 's son , being a musician , used to play on the Jogi 's fiddle , and in his hands the music it gave forth delighted the ears of all who heard it.
When all the household were absent at their labors in the fields , the person_0 girl used to come out of the bamboo fiddle , and prepared the family meal.
Having eaten her own share , she placed that of the chief 's son under his bed , and covering it up to keep off the dust , re-entered the fiddle.
This happening every day , the other members of the household thought that some girl friend of theirs was in this manner showing her interest in the young man , so they did not trouble themselves to find out how it came about.
The young chief , however , was determined to watch , and see which of his girl friends was so attentive to his comfort.
He said in his own mind , `` I will catch her to-day , and give her a sound beating ; she is causing me to be ashamed before the others"
So saying , he hid himself in a corner in a pile of firewood.
In a short time the girl came out of the bamboo fiddle , and began to dress her hair.
Having completed her toilet , she cooked the meal of rice as usual , and having eaten some herself , she placed the young man 's portion under his bed , as before , and was about to enter the fiddle again , when he , running out from his hiding-place , caught her in his arms.
The person_0 girl exclaimed , `` Fie ! Fie ! you may be a Dom , or you may be a Hadi of some other caste with whom I can not marry"
He said , `` No.
.
But from to-day , you and I are one"
So they began lovingly to hold converse with each other.
When the others returned home in the evening , they saw that she was both a human being and a person_0 , and they rejoiced exceedingly.
Now in course of time the person_0 girl 's family became very poor , and her brothers on one occasion came to the chief 's house on a visit.
The person_0 girl recognized them at once , but they did not know who she was.
She brought them water on their arrival , and afterwards set cooked rice before them.
Then sitting down near them , she began in wailing tones to upbraid them on account of the treatment she had been subjected to by their wives.
She related all that had befallen her , and wound up by saying , `` You must have known it all , and yet you did not interfere to save me"
And that was all the revenge she took"
FIRST STORY A shoemaker , by no fault of his own , had become so poor that at last he had nothing left but leather for one pair of shoes.
So in the evening , he cut out the shoes which he wished to begin to make the next morning , and as he had a good conscience , he lay down quietly in his bed , commended himself to God , and fell asleep.
In the morning , after he had said his prayers , and was just going to sit down to work , the two shoes stood quite finished on his table.
He was astounded , and knew not what to say to it.
He took the shoes in his hands to observe them closer , and they were so neatly made that there was not one bad stitch in them , just as if they were intended as a masterpiece.
Soon after , a buyer came in , and as the shoes pleased him so well , he paid more for them than was customary , and , with the money , the shoemaker was able to purchase leather for two pairs of shoes.
He cut them out at night , and next morning was about to set to work with fresh courage ; but he had no need to do so , for , when he got up , they were already made , and buyers also were not wanting , who gave him money enough to buy leather for four pairs of shoes.
The following morning , too , he found the four pairs made ; and so it went on constantly , what he cut out in the evening was finished by the morning , so that he soon had his honest independence again , and at last became a wealthy man.
Now it befell that one evening not long before Christmas , when the man had been cutting out , he said to his wife , before going to bed , `` What think you if we were to stay up to-night to see who it is that lends us this helping hand ?"
The woman liked the idea , and lighted a candle , and then they hid themselves in a corner of the room , behind some clothes which were hanging up there , and watched.
When it was midnight , two pretty little naked men came , sat down by the shoemaker 's table , took all the work which was cut out before them and began to stitch , and sew , and hammer so skilfully and so quickly with their little fingers that the shoemaker could not turn away his eyes for astonishment.
They did not stop until all was done , and stood finished on the table , and they ran quickly away.
Next morning the woman said , `` The little men have made us rich , and we really must show that we are grateful for it.
They run about so , and have nothing on , and must be cold.
I 'll tell thee what I 'll do : I will make them little shirts , and coats , and vests , and trousers , and knit both of them a pair of stockings , and do thou , too , make them two little pairs of shoes"
The man said , `` I shall be very glad to do it ;"
and one night , when everything was ready , they laid their presents all together on the table instead of the cut-out work , and then concealed themselves to see how the little men would behave.
At midnight they came bounding in , and wanted to get to work at once , but as they did not find any leather cut out , but only the pretty little articles of clothing , they were at first astonished , and then they showed intense delight.
They dressed themselves with the greatest rapidity , putting the pretty clothes on , and singing , `` Now we are boys so fine to see , Why should we longer cobblers be ?"
Then they danced and skipped and leapt over chairs and benches.
At last they danced out of doors.
From that time forth they came no more , but as long as the shoemaker lived all went well with him , and all his undertakings prospered.
SECOND STORY There was once a poor servant-girl , who was industrious and cleanly , and swept the house every day , and emptied her sweepings on the great heap in front of the door.
One morning when she was just going back to her work , she found a letter on this heap , and as she could not read , she put her broom in the corner , and took the letter to her master and mistress , and behold it was an invitation from the elves , who asked the girl to hold a child for them at its christening.
The girl did not know what to do , but at length , after much persuasion , and as they told her that it was not right to refuse an invitation of this kind , she consented.
Then three elves came and conducted her to a hollow mountain , where the little folks lived.
Everything there was small , but more elegant and beautiful than can be described.
The baby 's mother lay in a bed of black ebony ornamented with pearls , the coverlids were embroidered with gold , the cradle was of ivory , the bath of gold.
The girl stood as godmother , and then wanted to go home again , but the little elves urgently entreated her to stay three days with them.
So she stayed , and passed the time in pleasure and gaiety , and the little folks did all they could to make her happy.
At last she set out on her way home.
Then first they filled her pockets quite full of money , and after that they led her out of the mountain again.
When she got home , she wanted to begin her work , and took the broom , which was still standing in the corner , in her hand and began to sweep.
Then some strangers came out of the house , who asked her who she was , and what business she had there ? And she had not , as she thought , been three days with the little men in the mountains , but seven years , and in the meantime her former masters had died.
THIRD STORY A certain mother 's child had been taken away out of its cradle by the elves , and a changeling with a large head and staring eyes , which would do nothing but eat and drink , laid in its place.
In her trouble she went to her neighbor , and asked her advice.
The neighbor said that she was to carry the changeling into the kitchen , set it down on the hearth , light a fire , and boil some water in two egg-shells , which would make the changeling laugh , and if he laughed , all would be over with him.
The woman did everything that her neighbor bade her.
When she put the egg-shells with water on the fire , the imp said , `` I am as old now as the Wester forest , but never yet have I seen any one boil anything in an egg-shell !"
And he began to laugh at it.
Whilst he was laughing , suddenly came a host of little elves , who brought the right child , set it down on the hearth , and took the changeling away with them"
`` I saw a little girl weeping ,"
said the Moon ; `` she was weeping over the depravity of the world.
She had received a most beautiful doll as a present.
Oh , that was a glorious doll , so fair and delicate ! She did not seem created for the sorrows of this world.
But the brothers of the little girl , those great naughty boys , had set the doll high up in the branches of a tree , and had run away.
`` The little girl could not reach up to the doll , and could not help her down , and that is why she was crying.
The doll must certainly have been crying too ; for she stretched out her arms among the green branches , and looked quite mournful.
Yes , these are the troubles of life of which the little girl had often heard tell.
Alas , poor doll ! it began to grow dark already ; and suppose night were to come on completely ! Was she to be left sitting there alone on the bough all night long ? No , the little maid could not make up her mind to that.
` I 'll stay with you , ' she said , although she felt anything but happy in her mind.
She could almost fancy she distinctly saw little gnomes , with their high-crowned hats , sitting in the bushes ; and further back in the long walk , tall spectres appeared to be dancing.
They came nearer and nearer , and stretched out their hands towards the tree on which the doll sat ; they laughed scornfully , and pointed at her with their fingers.
Oh , how frightened the little maid was ! ` But if one has not done anything wrong , ' she thought , ` nothing evil can harm one.
I wonder if I have done anything wrong ? ' And she considered.
` Oh , yes ! I laughed at the poor duck with the red rag on her leg ; she limped along so funnily , I could not help laughing ; but it 's a sin to laugh at animals.
' And she looked up at the doll.
` Did you laugh at the duck too ? ' she asked ; and it seemed as if the doll shook her head"
ONE day a peasant took his good hazel-stick out of the corner and said to his wife , `` Trina , I am going across country , and shall not return for three days.
If during that time the cattle-dealer should happen to call and want to buy our three cows , you may strike a bargain at once , but not unless you can get two hundred thalers for them ; nothing less , do you hear ?"
`` For heaven 's sake just go in peace ,"
answered the woman , `` I will manage that"
`` You , indeed ,"
said the man.
`` You once fell on your head when you were a little child , and that affects you even now ; but let me tell you this , if you do anything foolish , I will make your back black and blue , and not with paint , I assure you , but with the stick which I have in my hand , and the coloring shall last a whole year , you may rely on that"
And having said that , the man went on his way.
Next morning the cattle-dealer came , and the woman had no need to say many words to him.
When he had seen the cows and heard the price , he said , `` I am quite willing to give that , honestly speaking , they are worth it.
I will take the beasts away with me at once"
He unfastened their chains and drove them out of the byre , but just as he was going out of the yard-door , the woman clutched him by the sleeve and said , `` You must give me the two hundred thalers now , or I can not let the cows go"
`` True ,"
answered the man , `` but I have forgotten to buckle on my money-belt.
Have no fear , however , you shall have security for my paying.
I will take two cows with me and leave one , and then you will have a good pledge"
The woman saw the force of this , and let the man go away with the cows , and thought to herself , `` How pleased Hans will be when he finds how cleverly I have managed it !"
The peasant came home on the third day as he had said he would , and at once inquired if the cows were sold ? `` Yes , indeed , dear Hans ,"
answered the woman , `` and as you said , for two hundred thalers.
They are scarcely worth so much , but the man took them without making any objection"
`` Where is the money ?"
asked the peasant.
`` Oh , I have not got the money ,"
replied the woman ; `` he had happened to forget his money-belt , but he will soon bring it , and he left good security behind him"
`` What kind of security ?"
asked the man.
`` One of the three cows , which he shall not have until he has paid for the other two.
I have managed very cunningly , for I have kept the smallest , which eats the least"
The man was enraged and lifted up his stick , and was just going to give her the beating he had promised her.
Suddenly he let the stick fail and said , `` You are the stupidest goose that ever waddled on God 's earth , but I am sorry for you.
I will go out into the highways and wait for three days to see if I find anyone who is still stupider than you.
If I succeed in doing so , you shall go scot-free , but if I do not find him , you shall receive your well-deserved reward without any discount"
He went out into the great highways , sat down on a stone , and waited for what would happen.
Then he saw a peasant 's waggon coming towards him , and a woman was standing upright in the middle of it , instead of sitting on the bundle of straw which was lying beside her , or walking near the oxen and leading them.
The man thought to himself , `` That is certainly one of the kind I am in search of ,"
and jumped up and ran backwards and forwards in front of the waggon like one who is not very wise.
`` What do you want , my friend ?"
said the woman to him ; `` I do n't know you , where do you come from ?"
`` I have fallen down from heaven ,"
replied the man , `` and do n't know how to get back again , could n't you drive me up ?"
`` No ,"
said the woman , `` I do n't know the way , but if you come from heaven you can surely tell me how my husband , who has been there these three years is.
You must have seen him ?"
`` Oh , yes , I have seen him , but all men ca n't get on well.
He keeps sheep , and the sheep give him a great deal to do.
They run up the mountains and lose their way in the wilderness , and he has to run after them and drive them together again.
His clothes are all torn to pieces too , and will soon fall off his body.
There is no tailor there , for Saint Peter wo n't let any of them in , as you know by the story"
`` Who would have thought it ?"
cried the woman , `` I tell you what , I will fetch his Sunday coat which is still hanging at home in the cupboard , he can wear that and look respectable.
You will be so kind as to take it with you"
`` That wo n't do very well ,"
answered the peasant ; `` people are not allowed to take clothes into person_0 , they are taken away from one at the gate"
`` Then hark you ,"
said the woman , `` I sold my fine wheat yesterday and got a good lot of money for it , I will send that to him.
If you hide the purse in your pocket , no one will know that you have it"
`` If you ca n't manage it any other way ,"
said the peasant , `` I will do you that favor"
`` Just sit still where you are ,"
said she , `` and I will drive home and fetch the purse , I shall soon be back again.
I do not sit down on the bundle of straw , but stand up in the waggon , because it makes it lighter for the cattle"
She drove her oxen away , and the peasant thought , `` That woman has a perfect talent for folly , if she really brings the money , my wife may think herself fortunate , for she will get no beating"
It was not long before she came in a great hurry with the money , and with her own hands put it in his pocket.
Before she went away , she thanked him again a thousand times for his courtesy.
When the woman got home again , she found her son who had come in from the field.
She told him what unlooked-for things had befallen her , and then added , `` I am truly delighted at having found an opportunity of sending something to my poor husband.
Who would ever have imagined that he could be suffering for want of anything up in heaven ?"
The son was full of astonishment.
`` Mother ,"
said he , `` it is not every day that a man comes from person_0 in this way , I will go out immediately , and see if he is still to be found ; he must tell me what it is like up there , and how the work is done"
He saddled the horse and rode off with all speed.
He found the peasant who was sitting under a willow-tree , and was just going to count the money in the purse.
`` Have you seen the man who has fallen down from person_0 ?"
cried the youth to him.
`` Yes ,"
answered the peasant , `` he has set out on his way back there , and has gone up that hill , from whence it will be rather nearer ; you could still catch him up , if you were to ride fast"
`` Alas ,"
said the youth , `` I have been doing tiring work all day , and the ride here has completely worn me out ; you know the man , be so kind as to get on my horse , and go and persuade him to come here"
`` Aha !"
thought the peasant , `` here is another who has no wick in his lamp !"
`` Why should I not do you this favor ?"
said he , and mounted the horse and rode off in a quick trot.
The youth remained sitting there till night fell , but the peasant never came back.
`` The man from person_0 must certainly have been in a great hurry , and would not turn back ,"
thought he , `` and the peasant has no doubt given him the horse to take to my father"
He went home and told his mother what had happened , and that he had sent his father the horse so that he might not have to be always running about.
`` Thou hast done well ,"
answered she , `` thy legs are younger than his , and thou canst go on foot"
When the peasant got home , he put the horse in the stable beside the cow which he had as a pledge , and then went to his wife and said , `` Trina , as your luck would have it , I have found two who are still sillier fools than you ; this time you escape without a beating , I will store it up for another occasion"
Then he lighted his pipe , sat down in his grandfather 's chair , and said , `` It was a good stroke of business to get a sleek horse and a great purse full of money into the bargain , for two lean cows.
If stupidity always brought in as much as that , I would be quite willing to hold it in honor"
So thought the peasant , but you no doubt prefer the simple folks"
THERE was a poor but good little girl who lived alone with her mother , and they no longer had anything to eat.
So the child went into the forest , and there an aged woman met her who was aware of her sorrow , and presented her with a little pot , which when she said , `` Cook , little pot , cook ,"
would cook good , sweet porridge , and when she said , `` Stop , little pot ,"
it ceased to cook.
The girl took the pot home to her mother , and now they were freed from their poverty and hunger , and ate sweet porridge as often as they chose.
Once on a time when the girl had gone out , her mother said , `` Cook , little pot , cook"
And it did cook and she ate till she was satisfied , and then she wanted the pot to stop cooking , but did not know the word.
So it went on cooking and the porridge rose over the edge , and still it cooked on until the kitchen and whole house were full , and then the next house , and then the whole street , just as if it wanted to satisfy the hunger of the whole world , and there was the greatest distress , but no one knew how to stop it.
At last when only one single house remained , the child came home and just said , `` Stop , little pot ,"
and it stopped and gave up cooking , and whosoever wished to return to the town had to eat his way back"
A certain King had three sons who were all equally dear to him , and he did not know which of them to appoint as his successor after his own death.
When the time came when he was about to die , he summoned them to his bedside and said , `` Dear children , I have been thinking of something which I will declare unto you ; whichsoever of you is the laziest shall have the kingdom"
The eldest said , `` Then , father , the kingdom is mine , for I am so idle that if I lie down to rest , and a drop falls in my eye , I will not open it that I may sleep"
The second said ; `` Father , the kingdom belongs to me , for I am so idle that when I am sitting by the fire warming myself , I would rather let my heel be burnt off than draw back my leg"
The third said , `` Father , the kingdom is mine , for I am so idle that if I were going to be hanged , and had the rope already round my neck , and any one put a sharp knife into my hand with which I might cut the rope , I would rather let myself be hanged than raise my hand to the rope"
When the father heard that , he said , `` Thou hast carried it the farthest , and shalt be King"
There was once a King 's son who was seized with a desire to travel about the world , and took no one with him but a faithful servant.
One day he came to a great forest , and when darkness overtook him he could find no shelter , and knew not where to pass the night.
Then he saw a girl who was going towards a small house , and when he came nearer , he saw that the maiden was young and beautiful.
He spoke to her , and said , `` Dear child , can I and my servant find shelter for the night in the little house ?"
`` Oh , yes ,"
said the girl in a sad voice , `` that you certainly can , but I do not advise you to venture it.
Do not go in"
`` Why not ?"
asked the King 's son.
The maiden sighed and said , `` My step-mother practises wicked arts ; she is ill-disposed toward strangers"
Then he saw very well that he had come to the house of a witch , but as it was dark , and he could not go farther , and also was not afraid , he entered.
The old woman was sitting in an armchair by the fire , and looked at the stranger with her red eyes.
`` Good evening ,"
growled she , and pretended to be quite friendly.
`` Take a seat and rest yourselves"
She blew up the fire on which she was cooking something in a small pot.
The daughter warned the two to be prudent , to eat nothing , and drink nothing , for the old woman brewed evil drinks.
They slept quietly until early morning.
When they were making ready for their departure , and the King 's son was already seated on his horse , the old woman said , `` Stop a moment , I will first hand you a parting draught"
Whilst she fetched it , the King 's son rode away , and the servant who had to buckle his saddle tight , was the only one present when the wicked witch came with the drink.
`` Take that to your master ,"
said she.
But at that instant the glass broke and the poison spirted on the horse , and it was so strong that the animal immediately fell down dead.
The servant ran after his master and told him what had happened , but would not leave his saddle behind him , and ran back to fetch it.
When , however , he came to the dead horse a raven was already sitting on it devouring it.
`` Who knows whether we shall find anything better to-day ?"
said the servant ; so he killed the raven , and took it with him.
And now they journeyed onwards into the forest the whole day , but could not get out of it.
By nightfall they found an inn and entered it.
The servant gave the raven to the innkeeper to make ready for supper.
They had , however , stumbled on a den of murderers , and during the darkness twelve of these came , intending to kill the strangers and rob them.
Before they set about this work , they sat down to supper , and the innkeeper and the witch sat down with them , and together they ate a dish of soup in which was cut up the flesh of the raven.
Hardly , however , had they swallowed a couple of mouthfuls , before they all fell down dead , for the raven had communicated to them the poison from the horse-flesh.
There was no no one else left in the house but the innkeeper 's daughter , who was honest , and had taken no part in their godless deeds.
She opened all doors to the stranger and showed him the heaped-up treasures.
But the King 's son said she might keep everything , he would have none of it , and rode onwards with his servant.
After they had traveled about for a long time , they came to a town in which was a beautiful but proud princess , who had caused it to be proclaimed that whosoever should set her a riddle which she could not guess , that man should be her husband ; but if she guessed it , his head must be cut off.
She had three days to guess it in , but was so clever that she always found the answer to the riddle given her , before the appointed time.
Nine suitors had already perished in this manner , when the King 's son arrived , and blinded by her great beauty , was willing to stake his life for it.
Then he went to her and laid his riddle before her.
`` What is this ?"
said he , `` One slew none , and yet slew twelve"
She did not know what that was , she thought and thought , but she could not find out , she opened her riddle-books , but it was not in them -- in short , her wisdom was at an end.
As she did not know how to help herself , she ordered her maid to creep into the lord 's sleeping-chamber , and listen to his dreams , and thought that he would perhaps speak in his sleep and discover the riddle.
But the clever servant had placed himself in the bed instead of his master , and when the maid came there , he tore off from her the mantle in which she had wrapped herself , and chased her out with rods.
The second night the King 's daughter sent her maid-in-waiting , who was to see if she could succeed better in listening , but the servant took her mantle also away from her , and hunted her out with rods.
Now the master believed himself safe for the third night , and lay down in his own bed.
Then came the princess herself , and she had put on a misty-grey mantle , and she seated herself near him.
And when she thought that he was asleep and dreaming , she spoke to him , and hoped that he would answer in his sleep , as many do , but he was awake , and understood and heard everything quite well.
Then she asked , `` One slew none , what is that ?"
He replied , `` A raven , which ate of a dead and poisoned horse , and died of it"
She inquired further , `` And yet slew twelve , what is that ?"
He answered , `` That means twelve murderers , who ate the raven and died of it"
When she knew the answer to the riddle she wanted to steal away , but he held her mantle so fast that she was forced to leave it behind her.
Next morning , the King 's daughter announced that she had guessed the riddle , and sent for the twelve judges and expounded it before them.
But the youth begged for a hearing , and said , `` She stole into my room in the night and questioned me , otherwise she could not have discovered it"
The judges said , `` Bring us a proof of this"
Then were the three mantles brought thither by the servant , and when the judges saw the misty-grey one which the King 's daughter usually wore , they said , `` Let the mantle be embroidered with gold and silver , and then it will be your wedding-mantle"
There was once a peasant who had driven his cow to the fair , and sold her for seven thalers.
On the way home he had to pass a pond , and already from afar he heard the frogs crying , `` Aik , aik , aik , aik"
`` Well ,"
said he to himself , `` they are talking without rhyme or reason , it is seven that I have received , not eight"
When he got to the water , he cried to them , `` Stupid animals that you are ! Do n't you know better than that ? It is seven thalers and not eight"
The frogs , however , stood to their , `` aik aik , aik , aik"
`` Come , then , if you wo n't believe it , I can count it out to you"
And he took his money out of his pocket and counted out the seven thalers , always reckoning four and twenty groschen to a thaler.
The frogs , however , paid no attention to his reckoning , but still cried , `` aik , aik , aik , aik"
`` What ,"
cried the peasant , quite angry , `` since you are determined to know better than I , count it yourselves ,"
and threw all the money into the water to them.
He stood still and wanted to wait until they were done and had brought him his own again , but the frogs maintained their opinion and cried continually , `` aik , aik , aik , aik ,"
and besides that , did not throw the money out again.
He still waited a long while until evening came on and he was forced to go home.
Then he abused the frogs and cried , `` You water-splashers , you thick-heads , you goggle-eyes , you have great mouths and can screech till you hurt one 's ears , but you can not count seven thalers ! Do you think I 'm going to stand here till you get done ?"
And with that he went away , but the frogs still cried , `` aik , aik , aik , aik ,"
after him till he went home quite angry.
After a while he bought another cow , which he killed , and he made the calculation that if he sold the meat well he might gain as much as the two cows were worth , and have the skin into the bargain.
When therefore he got to the town with the meat , a great troop of dogs were gathered together in front of the gate , with a large greyhound at the head of them , which jumped at the meat , snuffed at it , and barked , `` Wow , wow , wow"
As there was no stopping him , the peasant said to him , `` Yes , yes , I know quite well that thou art saying , ` wow , wow , wow , ' because thou wantest some of the meat ; but I should fare badly if I were to give it to thee"
The dog , however , answered nothing but `` wow , wow"
`` Wilt thou promise not to devour it all then , and wilt thou go bail for thy companions ?"
`` Wow , wow , wow ,"
said the dog.
`` Well , if thou insistest on it , I will leave it for thee ; I know thee well , and know who is thy master ; but this I tell thee , I must have my money in three days or else it will go ill with thee ; thou must just bring it out to me"
Thereupon he unloaded the meat and turned back again , the dogs fell upon it and loudly barked , `` wow , wow"
The countryman , who heard them from afar , said to himself , `` Hark , now they all want some , but the big one is responsible to me for it"
When three days had passed , the countryman thought , `` To-night my money will be in my pocket ,"
and was quite delighted.
But no one would come and pay it.
`` There is no trusting any one now ,"
said he ; and at last he lost patience , and went into the town to the butcher and demanded his money.
The butcher thought it was a joke , but the peasant said , `` Jesting apart , I will have my money ! Did not the great dog bring you the whole of the slaughtered cow three days ago ?"
Then the butcher grew angry , snatched a broomstick and drove him out.
`` Wait a while ,"
said the peasant , `` there is still some justice in the world !"
and went to the royal palace and begged for an audience.
He was led before the King , who sat there with his daughter , and asked him what injury he had suffered.
`` Alas !"
said he , `` the frogs and the dogs have taken from me what is mine , and the butcher has paid me for it with the stick ,"
and he related at full length all that had happened.
Thereupon the King 's daughter began to laugh heartily , and the King said to him , `` I can not give you justice in this , but you shall have my daughter to wife for it , -- in her whole life she has never yet laughed as she has just done at thee , and I have promised her to him who could make her laugh.
Thou mayst thank God for thy good fortune !"
`` Oh ,"
answered the peasant , `` I will not have her , I have a wife already , and she is one too many for me ; when I go home , it is just as bad as if I had a wife standing in every corner"
Then the King grew angry , and said , `` Thou art a boor"
`` Ah , Lord King ,"
replied the peasant , `` what can you expect from an ox , but beef ?"
`` Stop ,"
answered the King , `` thou shalt have another reward.
Be off now , but come back in three days , and then thou shalt have five hundred counted out in full"
When the peasant went out by the gate , the sentry said , `` Thou hast made the King 's daughter laugh , so thou wilt certainly receive something good"
`` Yes , that is what I think ,"
answered the peasant ; `` five hundred are to be counted out to me"
`` Hark thee ,"
said the soldier , `` give me some of it.
What canst thou do with all that money ?"
`` As it is thou ,"
said the peasant , `` thou shalt have two hundred ; present thyself in three days ' time before the King , and let it be paid to thee"
A Jew , who was standing by and had heard the conversation , ran after the peasant , held him by the coat , and said , `` Oh , wonder ! what a luck-child thou art ! I will change it for thee , I will change it for thee into small coins , what dost thou want with the great thalers ?"
`` Jew ,"
said the countryman , `` three hundred canst thou still have ; give it to me at once in coin , in three days from this , thou wilt be paid for it by the King"
The Jew was delighted with the profit , and brought the sum in bad groschen , three of which were worth two good ones.
After three days had passed , according to the King 's command , the peasant went before the King.
`` Pull his coat off ,"
said the latter , `` and he shall have his five hundred"
`` Ah !"
said the peasant , `` they no longer belong to me ; I presented two hundred of them to the sentinel , and three hundred the Jew has changed for me , so by right nothing at all belongs to me"
In the meantime the soldier and the Jew entered and claimed what they had gained from the peasant , and they received the blows strictly counted out.
The soldier bore it patiently and knew already how it tasted , but the Jew said sorrowfully , `` Alas , alas , are these the heavy thalers ?"
The King could not help laughing at the peasant , and as all his anger was gone , he said , `` As thou hast already lost thy reward before it fell to thy lot , I will give thee something in the place of it.
Go into my treasure chamber and get some money for thyself , as much as thou wilt"
The peasant did not need to be told twice , and stuffed into his big pockets whatsoever would go in.
Afterwards he went to an inn and counted out his money.
The Jew had crept after him and heard how he muttered to himself , `` That rogue of a King has cheated me after all , why could he not have given me the money himself , and then I should have known what I had ? How can I tell now if what I have had the luck to put in my pockets is right or not ?"
`` Good heavens !"
said the Jew to himself , `` that man is speaking disrespectfully of our lord the King , I will run and inform , and then I shall get a reward , and he will be punished as well"
When the King heard of the peasant 's words he fell into a passion , and commanded the Jew to go and bring the offender to him.
The Jew ran to the peasant , `` You are to go at once to the lord King in the very clothes you have on"
`` I know what 's right better than that ,"
answered the peasant , `` I shall have a new coat made first.
Dost thou think that a man with so much money in his pocket is to go there in his ragged old coat ?"
The Jew , as he saw that the peasant would not stir without another coat , and as he feared that if the King 's anger cooled , he himself would lose his reward , and the peasant his punishment , said , `` I will out of pure friendship lend thee a coat for the short time.
What will people not do for love !"
The peasant was contented with this , put the Jew 's coat on , and went off with him.
The King reproached the countryman because of the evil speaking of which the Jew had informed him.
`` Ah ,"
said the peasant , `` what a Jew says is always false -- no true word ever comes out of his mouth ! That rascal there is capable of maintaining that I have his coat on"
`` What is that ?"
shrieked the Jew.
`` Is the coat not mine ? Have I not lent it to thee out of pure friendship , in order that thou might appear before the lord King ?"
When the King heard that , he said , `` The Jew has assuredly deceived one or the other of us , either myself or the peasant ,"
and again he ordered something to be counted out to him in hard thalers.
The peasant , however , went home in the good coat , with the good money in his pocket , and said to himself , `` This time I have hit it !"
There was once a man who had three sons , and nothing else in the world but the house in which he lived.
Now each of the sons wished to have the house after his father 's death ; but the father loved them all alike , and did not know what to do ; he did not wish to sell the house , because it had belonged to his forefathers , else he might have divided the money amongst them.
At last a plan came into his head , and he said to his sons , `` Go into the world , and try each of you to learn a trade , and , when you all come back , he who makes the best masterpiece shall have the house"
The sons were well content with this , and the eldest determined to be a blacksmith , the second a barber , and the third a fencing-master.
They fixed a time when they should all come home again , and then each went his way.
It chanced that they all found skilful masters , who taught them their trades well.
The blacksmith had to shoe the King 's horses , and he thought to himself , `` The house is mine , without doubt"
The barber only shaved great people , and he too already looked upon the house as his own.
The fencing-master got many a blow , but he only bit his lip , and let nothing vex him ; `` for ,"
said he to himself , `` If you are afraid of a blow , you 'll never win the house"
When the appointed time had gone by , the three brothers came back home to their father ; but they did not know how to find the best opportunity for showing their skill , so they sat down and consulted together.
As they were sitting thus , all at once a hare came running across the field.
`` Ah , ha , just in time !"
said the barber.
So he took his basin and soap , and lathered away until the hare came up ; then he soaped and shaved off the hare 's whiskers whilst he was running at the top of his speed , and did not even cut his skin or injure a hair on his body.
`` Well done !"
said the old man.
`` Your brothers will have to exert themselves wonderfully , or the house will be yours"
Soon after , up came a nobleman in his coach , dashing along at full speed.
`` Now you shall see what I can do , father ,"
said the blacksmith ; so away he ran after the coach , took all four shoes off the feet of one of the horses whilst he was galloping , and put him on four new shoes without stopping him.
`` You are a fine fellow , and as clever as your brother ,"
said his father ; `` I do not know to which I ought to give the house"
Then the third son said , `` Father , let me have my turn , if you please ;"
and , as it was beginning to rain , he drew his sword , and flourished it backwards and forwards above his head so fast that not a drop fell upon him.
It rained still harder and harder , till at last it came down in torrents ; but he only flourished his sword faster and faster , and remained as dry as if he were sitting in a house.
When his father saw this he was amazed , and said , `` This is the master-piece , the house is yours !"
His brothers were satisfied with this , as was agreed beforehand ; and , as they loved one another very much , they all three stayed together in the house , followed their trades , and , as they had learned them so well and were so clever , they earned a great deal of money.
Thus they lived together happily until they grew old ; and at last , when one of them fell sick and died , the two others grieved so sorely about it that they also fell ill , and soon after died.
And because they had been so clever , and had loved one another so much , they were all laid in the same grave"
`` Yesterday ,"
began the Moon , `` I looked down upon the turmoil of Paris.
My eye penetrated into an apartment of the Louvre.
An old grandmother , poorly clad -- she belonged to the working class -- was following one of the under-servants into the great empty throne-room , for this was the apartment she wanted to see -- that she was resolved to see ; it had cost her many a little sacrifice , and many a coaxing word , to penetrate thus far.
She folded her thin hands , and looked round with an air of reverence , as if she had been in a church"
` Here it was ! ' she said , ` here ! ' And she approached the throne , from which hung the rich velvet fringed with gold lace.
` There , ' she exclaimed , ` there ! ' and she knelt and kissed the purple carpet.
I think she was actually weeping"
` But it was not _ this very _ velvet ! ' observed the footman , and a smile played about his mouth.
` True , but it was this very place , ' replied the woman , ` and it must have looked just like this.
' ` It looked so , and yet it did not , ' observed the man : ` the windows were beaten in , and the doors were off their hinges , and there was blood upon the floor.
' ` But for all that you can say , my grandson died upon the throne of person_0.
Died ! ' mournfully repeated the old woman.
I do not think another word was spoken , and they soon quitted the hall.
The evening twilight faded , and my light shone doubly vivid upon the rich velvet that covered the throne of person_0.
`` Now , who do you think this poor woman was ? Listen , I will tell you a story.
`` It happened , in the Revolution of July , on the evening of the most brilliantly victorious day , when every house was a fortress , every window a breastwork.
The people stormed the Tuileries.
Even women and children were to be found among the combatants.
They penetrated into the apartments and halls of the palace.
A poor half-grown boy in a ragged blouse fought among the older insurgents.
Mortally wounded with several bayonet thrusts , he sank down.
This happened in the throne-room.
They laid the bleeding youth upon the throne of person_0 , wrapped the velvet around his wounds , and his blood streamed forth upon the imperial purple.
There was a picture ! the splendid hall , the fighting groups ! A torn flag lay upon the ground , the tricolor was waving above the bayonets , and on the throne lay the poor lad with the pale glorified countenance , his eyes turned towards the sky , his limbs writhing in the death agony , his breast bare , and his poor tattered clothing half hidden by the rich velvet embroidered with silver lilies.
At the boy 's cradle a prophecy had been spoken : ` He will die on the throne of person_0 ! ' The mother 's heart dreamt of a second Napoleon.
`` My beams have kissed the wreath of _ immortelles _ on his grave , and this night they kissed the forehead of the old grandame , while in a dream the picture floated before her which thou mayest draw -- the poor boy on the throne of person_0"
It was more than a fortnight since the Moon had shone.
Now he stood once more , round and bright , above the clouds , moving slowly onward.
Hear what the Moon told me.
`` From a town in Fezzan I followed a caravan.
On the margin of the sandy desert , in a salt plain , that shone like a frozen lake , and was only covered in spots with light drifting sand , a halt was made.
The eldest of the company -- the water gourd hung at his girdle , and on his head was a little bag of unleavened bread -- drew a square in the sand with his staff , and wrote in it a few words out of the Koran , and then the whole caravan passed over the consecrated spot.
A young merchant , a child of the East , as I could tell by his eye and his figure , rode pensively forward on his white snorting steed.
Was he thinking , perchance , of his fair young wife ? It was only two days ago that the camel , adorned with furs and with costly shawls , had carried her , the beauteous bride , round the walls of the city , while drums and cymbals had sounded , the women sang , and festive shots , of which the bridegroom fired the greatest number , resounded round the camel ; and now he was journeying with the caravan across the desert.
`` For many nights I followed the train.
I saw them rest by the well-side among the stunted palms ; they thrust the knife into the breast of the camel that had fallen , and roasted its flesh by the fire.
My beams cooled the glowing sands , and showed them the black rocks , dead islands in the immense ocean of sand.
No hostile tribes met them in their pathless route , no storms arose , no columns of sand whirled destruction over the journeying caravan.
At home the beautiful wife prayed for her husband and her father.
` Are they dead ? ' she asked of my golden crescent ; ` Are they dead ? ' she cried to my full disc.
Now the desert lies behind them.
This evening they sit beneath the lofty palm trees , where the crane flutters round them with its long wings , and the pelican watches them from the branches of the mimosa.
The luxuriant herbage is trampled down , crushed by the feet of elephants.
A troop of negroes are returning from a market in the interior of the land : the women , with copper buttons in their black hair , and decked out in clothes dyed with indigo , drive the heavily-laden oxen , on whose backs slumber the naked black children.
A negro leads a young lion which he has bought , by a string.
They approach the caravan ; the young merchant sits pensive and motionless , thinking of his beautiful wife , dreaming , in the land of the blacks , of his white fragrant lily beyond the desert.
He raises his head , and --"
But at this moment a cloud passed before the Moon , and then another.
I heard nothing more from him this evening"
Harry was lazy , and although he had nothing else to do but drive his goat daily to pasture , he nevertheless groaned when he went home after his day 's work was done.
`` It is indeed a heavy burden ,"
said he , `` and a wearisome employment to drive a goat into the field this way year after year , till late into the autumn ! If one could but lie down and sleep , but no , one must have one 's eyes open lest it hurts the young trees , or squeezes itself through the hedge into a garden , or runs away altogether.
How can one have any rest , or peace of one 's life ?"
He seated himself , collected his thoughts , and considered how he could set his shoulders free from this burden.
For a long time all thinking was to no purpose , but suddenly it was as if scales fell from his eyes.
`` I know what I will do ,"
he cried , `` I will marry fat Trina who has also a goat , and can take mine out with hers , and then I shall have no more need to trouble myself"
So Harry got up , set his weary legs in motion , and went right across the street , for it was no farther , to where the parents of fat Trina lived , and asked for their industrious and virtuous daughter in marriage.
The parents did not reflect long.
`` Birds of a feather , flock together ,"
they thought , and consented.
So fat Trina became Harry 's wife , and led out both the goats.
Harry had a good time of it , and had no work that he required to rest from but his own idleness.
He only went out with her now and then , and said , `` I merely do it that I may afterwards enjoy rest more , otherwise one loses all feeling for it"
But fat Trina was no less idle.
`` Dear Harry ,"
said she one day , `` why should we make our lives so toilsome when there is no need for it , and thus ruin the best days of our youth ? Would it not be better for us to give the two goats which disturb us every morning in our sweetest sleep with their bleating , to our neighbor , and he will give us a beehive for them.
We will put the beehive in a sunny place behind the house , and trouble ourselves no more about it.
Bees do not require to be taken care of , or driven into the field ; they fly out and find the way home again for themselves , and collect honey without giving the very least trouble"
`` Thou hast spoken like a sensible woman ,"
replied Harry.
`` We will carry out thy proposal without delay , and besides all that , honey tastes better and nourishes one better than goat 's milk , and it can be kept longer too"
The neighbor willingly gave a beehive for the two goats.
The bees flew in and out from early morning till late evening without ever tiring , and filled the hive with the most beautiful honey , so that in autumn Harry was able to take a whole pitcherful out of it.
They placed the jug on a board which was fixed to the wall of their bed-room , and as they were afraid that it might be stolen from them , or that the mice might find it , Trina brought in a stout hazel-stick and put it beside her bed , so that without unnecessary getting up she might reach it with her hand , and drive away the uninvited guests.
Lazy Harry did not like to leave his bed before noon.
`` He who rises early ,"
said he , `` wastes his substance"
One morning when he was still lying amongst the feathers in broad daylight , resting after his long sleep , he said to his wife , `` Women are fond of sweet things , and thou art always tasting the honey in private ; it will be better for us to exchange it for a goose with a young gosling , before thou eatest up the whole of it"
`` But ,"
answered Trina , `` not before we have a child to take care of them ! Am I to worry myself with the little geese , and spend all my strength on them to no purpose"
`` Dost thou think ,"
said Harry , `` that the youngster will look after geese ? Now-a-days children no longer obey , they do according to their own fancy , because they consider themselves cleverer than their parents , just like that lad who was sent to seek the cow and chased three blackbirds"
`` Oh ,"
replied Trina , `` this one shall fare badly if he does not do what I say ! I will take a stick and belabor his skin for him with more blows than I can count.
Look , Harry ,"
cried she in her zeal , and seized the stick which she had to drive the mice away with , `` Look , this is the way I will fall on him !"
She reached her arm out to strike , but unhappily hit the honey-pitcher above the bed.
The pitcher struck against the wall and fell down in fragments , and the fine honey streamed down on the ground.
`` There lie the goose and the young gosling ,"
said Harry , `` and want no looking after.
But it is lucky that the pitcher did not fall on my head.
We have all reason to be satisfied with our lot"
And then as he saw that there was still some honey in one of the fragments he stretched out his hand for it , and said quite gaily , `` The remains , my wife , we will still eat with a relish , and we will rest a little after the fright we have had.
What matters if we do get up a little later the day is always long enough"
`` Yes ,"
answered Trina , `` we shall always get to the end of it at the proper time.
Dost thou know that the snail was once asked to a wedding and set out to go , but arrived at the christening.
In front of the house it fell over the fence , and said , ` Speed does no good.
'"
A father once called his three sons before him , and he gave to the first a cock , to the second a scythe , and to the third a cat.
`` I am already aged ,"
said he , `` my death is nigh , and I have wished to take thought for you before my end ; money I have not , and what I now give you seems of little worth , but all depends on your making a sensible use of it.
Only seek out a country where such things are still unknown , and your fortune is made"
After the father 's death the eldest went away with his cock , but wherever he came the cock was already known ; in the towns he saw him from a long distance , sitting upon the steeples and turning round with the wind , and in the villages he heard more than one crowing ; no one would show any wonder at the creature , so that it did not look as if he would make his fortune by it.
At last , however , it happened that he came to an island where the people knew nothing about cocks , and did not even understand how to divide their time.
They certainly knew when it was morning or evening , but at night , if they did not sleep through it , not one of them knew how to find out the time.
`` Look !"
said he , `` what a proud creature ! it has a ruby-red crown upon its head , and wears spurs like a knight ; it calls you three times during the night , at fixed hours , and when it calls for the last time , the sun soon rises.
But if it crows by broad daylight , then take notice , for there will certainly be a change of weather"
The people were well pleased ; for a whole night they did not sleep , and listened with great delight as the cock at two , four , and six o'clock , loudly and clearly proclaimed the time.
They asked if the creature were for sale , and how much he wanted for it ? `` About as much gold as an ass can carry ,"
answered he.
`` A ridiculously small price for such a precious creature !"
they cried unanimously , and willingly gave him what he had asked.
When he came home with his wealth his brothers were astonished , and the second said , `` Well , I will go forth and see whether I can not get rid of my scythe as profitably"
But it did not look as if he would , for labourers met him everywhere , and they had scythes upon their shoulders as well as he.
At last , however , he chanced upon an island where the people knew nothing of scythes.
When the corn was ripe there , they took cannon out to the fields and shot it down.
Now this was rather an uncertain affair ; many shot right over it , others hit the ears instead of the stems , and shot them away , whereby much was lost , and besides all this , it made a terrible noise.
So the man set to work and mowed it down so quietly and quickly that the people opened their mouths with astonishment.
They agreed to give him what he wanted for the scythe , and he received a horse laden with as much gold as it could carry.
And now the third brother wanted to take his cat to the right man.
He fared just like the others ; so long as he stayed on the mainland there was nothing to be done.
Every place had cats , and there were so many of them that new-born kittens were generally drowned in the ponds.
At last he sailed over to an island , and it luckily happened that no cats had ever yet been seen there , and that the mice had got the upper hand so much that they danced upon the tables and benches whether the master were at home or not.
The people complained bitterly of the plague ; the King himself in his palace did not know how to secure himself against them ; mice squeaked in every corner , and gnawed whatever they could lay hold of with their teeth.
But now the cat began her chase , and soon cleared a couple of rooms , and the people begged the King to buy the wonderful beast for the country.
The King willingly gave what was asked , which was a mule laden with gold , and the third brother came home with the greatest treasure of all.
The cat made herself merry with the mice in the royal palace , and killed so many that they could not be counted.
At last she grew warm with the work and thirsty , so she stood still , lifted up her head and cried , `` Mew.
Mew !"
When they heard this strange cry , the King and all his people were frightened , and in their terror ran all at once out of the palace.
Then the King took counsel what was best to be done ; at last it was determined to send a herald to the cat , and demand that she should leave the palace , or if not , she was to expect that force would be used against her.
The councillors said , `` Rather will we let ourselves be plagued with the mice , for to that misfortune we are accustomed , than give up our lives to such a monster as this"
A noble youth , therefore , was sent to ask the cat `` whether she would peaceably quit the castle ?"
But the cat , whose thirst had become still greater , merely answered , `` Mew ! Mew !"
The youth understood her to say , `` Most certainly not ! most certainly not !"
and took this answer to the King.
`` Then ,"
said the councillors , `` she shall yield to force"
Cannon were brought out , and the palace was soon in flames.
When the fire reached the room where the cat was sitting , she sprang safely out of the window ; but the besiegers did not leave off until the whole palace was shot down to the ground"
Lean Lisa was of a very different way of thinking from lazy Harry and fat Trina , who never let anything disturb their peace.
She scoured everything with ashes , from morning till evening , and burdened her husband , Long Laurence , with so much work that he had heavier weights to carry than an ass with three sacks.
It was , however , all to no purpose , they had nothing and came to nothing.
One night as she lay in bed , and could hardly move one limb for weariness , she still did not allow her thoughts to go to sleep.
She thrust her elbows into her husband 's side , and said , `` Listen , Lenz , to what I have been thinking : if I were to find one florin and one was given to me , I would borrow another to put to them , and thou too shouldst give me another , and then as soon as I had got the four florins together , I would buy a young cow"
This pleased the husband right well.
`` It is true ,"
said he , `` that I do not know where I am to get the florin which thou wantest as a gift from me ; but , if thou canst get the money together , and canst buy a cow with it , thou wilt do well to carry out thy project.
I shall be glad ,"
he added , `` if the cow has a calf , and then I shall often get a drink of milk to refresh me"
`` The milk is not for thee ,"
said the woman , `` we must let the calf suck that it may become big and fat , and we may be able to sell it well"
`` Certainly ,"
replied the man , `` but still we will take a little milk ; that will do no harm"
`` Who has taught thee to manage cows ?"
said the woman ; `` Whether it does harm or not , I will not allow it , and even if thou wert to stand on thy head for it , thou shouldst not have a drop of the milk ! Dost thou think , because there is no satisfying thee , Long Laurence , that thou art to eat up what I earn with so much difficulty ?"
`` Wife ,"
said the man , `` be quiet , or I will give thee a blow on thy mouth !"
`` What !"
cried she , `` thou threatenest me , thou glutton , thou rascal , thou lazy Harry !"
She was just laying hold of his hair , but long Laurence got up , seized both Lean Lisa 's withered arms in one hand , and with the other he pressed down her head into the pillow , let her scold , and held her until she fell asleep for very weariness.
Whether she continued to wrangle when she awoke next morning , or whether she went out to look for the florin which she wanted to find , that I know not"
HANS CARVEL took , when weak and late in life ; A girl , with youth and beauteous charms to wife ; And with her , num ` rous troubles , cares and fears ; For , scarcely one without the rest appears.
Bab -LRB- such her name , and daughter of a knight -RRB- Was airy , buxom : formed for am ` rous fight.
Hans , holding jeers and cuckoldom in dread , Would have his precious rib with caution tread , And nothing but the Bible e ` er peruse ; All other books he daily would abuse ; Blamed secret visits ; frowned at loose attire ; And censured ev ` ry thing gallants admire.
The dame , howe'er , was deaf to all he said ; No preaching pleased but what to pleasure led , Which made the aged husband hold his tongue.
And wish for death , since all round went wrong.
Some easy moments he perhaps might get ; A full detail in hist ` ry 's page is met.
One night , when company he 'd had to dine , And pretty well was fill 'd with gen ` rous wine , Hans dreamed , as near his wife he snoring lay , The devil came his compliments to pay , And having on his finger put a ring ,"
In days gone by there was a land where the nights were always dark , and the sky spread over it like a black cloth , for there the moon never rose , and no star shone in the obscurity.
At the creation of the world , the light at night had been sufficient.
Three young fellows once went out of this country on a traveling expedition , and arrived in another kingdom , where , in the evening when the sun had disappeared behind the mountains , a shining globe was placed on an oak-tree , which shed a soft light far and wide.
By means of this , everything could very well be seen and distinguished , even though it was not so brilliant as the sun.
The travellers stopped and asked a countryman who was driving past with his cart , what kind of a light that was.
`` That is the moon ,"
answered he ; `` our mayor bought it for three thalers , and fastened it to the oak-tree.
He has to pour oil into it daily , and to keep it clean , so that it may always burn clearly.
He receives a thaler a week from us for doing it"
When the countryman had driven away , one of them said , `` We could make some use of this lamp , we have an oak-tree at home , which is just as big as this , and we could hang it on that.
What a pleasure it would be not to have to feel about at night in the darkness !"
`` I 'll tell you what we 'll do ,"
said the second ; `` we will fetch a cart and horses and carry away the moon.
The people here may buy themselves another"
`` I 'm a good climber ,"
said the third , `` I will bring it down"
The fourth brought a cart and horses , and the third climbed the tree , bored a hole in the moon , passed a rope through it , and let it down.
When the shining ball lay in the cart , they covered it over with a cloth , that no one might observe the theft.
They conveyed it safely into their own country , and placed it on a high oak.
Old and young rejoiced , when the new lamp let its light shine over the whole land , and bed-rooms and sitting-rooms were filled with it.
The dwarfs came forth from their caves in the rocks , and the tiny elves in their little red coats danced in rings on the meadows.
The four took care that the moon was provided with oil , cleaned the wick , and received their weekly thaler , but they became old men , and when one of them grew ill , and saw that he was about to die , he appointed that one quarter of the moon , should , as his property , be laid in the grave with him.
When he died , the mayor climbed up the tree , and cut off a quarter with the hedge-shears , and this was placed in his coffin.
The light of the moon decreased , but still not visibly.
When the second died , the second quarter was buried with him , and the light diminished.
It grew weaker still after the death of the third , who likewise took his part of it away with him ; and when the fourth was borne to his grave , the old state of darkness recommenced , and whenever the people went out at night without their lanterns they knocked their heads together.
When , however , the pieces of the moon had united themselves together again in the world below , where darkness had always prevailed , it came to pass that the dead became restless and awoke from their sleep.
They were astonished when they were able to see again ; the moonlight was quite sufficient for them , for their eyes had become so weak that they could not have borne the brilliance of the sun.
They rose up and were merry , and fell into their former ways of living.
Some of them went to the play and to dance , others hastened to the public-houses , where they asked for wine , got drunk , brawled , quarreled , and at last took up cudgels , and belabored each other.
The noise became greater and greater , and at last reached even to heaven.
Saint Peter who guards the gate of heaven thought the lower world had broken out in revolt and gathered together the heavenly troops , which are to drive back the Evil One when he and his associates storm the abode of the blessed.
As these , however , did not come , he got on his horse and rode through the gate of heaven , down into the world below.
There he reduced the dead to subjection , bade them lie down in their graves again , took the moon away with him , and hung it up in heaven"
Once upon a time the little hen went with the little cock to the nut-hill , and they agreed together that whichsoever of them found a kernel of a nut should share it with the other.
Then the hen found a large , large nut , but said nothing about it , intending to eat the kernel herself.
The kernel , however , was so large that she could not swallow it , and it remained sticking in her throat , so that she was alarmed lest she should be choked.
Then she cried , `` Cock , I entreat thee to run as fast thou canst , and fetch me some water , or I shall choke"
The little cock did run as fast as he could to the spring , and said , `` Stream , thou art to give me some water ; the little hen is lying on the nut-hill , and she has swallowed a large nut , and is choking"
The well answered , `` First run to the bride , and get her to give thee some red silk"
The little cock ran to the bride and said , `` Bride , you are to give me some red silk ; I want to give red silk to the well , the well is to give me some water , I am to take the water to the little hen who is lying on the nut-hill and has swallowed a great nut-kernel , and is choking with it"
The bride answered , `` First run and bring me my little wreath which is hanging to a willow"
So the little cock ran to the willow , and drew the wreath from the branch and took it to the bride , and the bride gave him some water for it.
Then the little cock took the water to the hen , but when he got there the hen had choked in the meantime , and lay there dead and motionless.
Then the cock was so distressed that he cried aloud , and every animal came to lament the little hen , and six mice built a little carriage to carry her to her grave , and when the carriage was ready they harnessed themselves to it , and the cock drove.
On the way , however , they met the fox , who said , `` Where art thou going , little cock ?"
`` I am going to bury my little hen"
`` May I drive with thee ?"
`` Yes , but seat thyself at the back of the carriage , for in the front my little horses could not drag thee"
Then the fox seated himself at the back , and after that the wolf , the bear , the stag , the lion , and all the beasts of the forest did the same.
Then the procession went onwards , and they reached the stream.
`` How are we to get over ?"
said the little cock.
A straw was lying by the stream , and it said , `` I will lay myself across , and you shall drive over me"
But when the six mice came to the bridge , the straw slipped and fell into the water , and the six mice all fell in and were drowned.
Then they were again in difficulty , and a coal came and said , `` I am large enough , I will lay myself across and you shall drive over me"
So the coal also laid itself across the water , but unhappily just touched it , on which the coal hissed , was extinguished and died.
When a stone saw that , it took pity on the little cock , wished to help him , and laid itself over the water.
Then the cock drew the carriage himself , but when he got it over and reached the other shore with the dead hen , and was about to draw over the others who were sitting behind as well , there were too many of them , the carriage ran back , and they all fell into the water together , and were drowned.
Then the little cock was left alone with the dead hen , and dug a grave for her and laid her in it , and made a mound above it , on which he sat down and fretted until he died too , and then every one was dead"
by Brothers Grimm It happened that the cat met the fox in a forest , and as she thought to herself , `` He is clever and full of experience , and much esteemed in the world ,"
she spoke to him in a friendly way.
`` Good-day , dear Mr.
Fox , how are you ? How is all with you ? How are you getting through this dear season ?"
The fox , full of all kinds of arrogance , looked at the cat from head to foot , and for a long time did not know whether he would give any answer or not.
At last he said , `` Oh , thou wretched beard-cleaner , thou piebald fool , thou hungry mouse-hunter , what canst thou be thinking of ? Dost thou venture to ask how I am getting on ? What hast thou learned ? How many arts dost thou understand ?"
`` I understand but one ,"
replied the cat , modestly.
`` What art is that ?"
asked the fox.
`` When the hounds are following me , I can spring into a tree and save myself"
`` Is that all ?"
said the fox.
`` I am master of a hundred arts , and have into the bargain a sackful of cunning.
Thou makest me sorry for thee ; come with me , I will teach thee how people get away from the hounds"
Just then came a hunter with four dogs.
The cat sprang nimbly up a tree , and sat down on top of it , where the branches and foliage quite concealed her.
`` Open your sack , Mr.
Fox , open your sack ,"
cried the cat to him , but the dogs had already seized him , and were holding him fast.
`` Ah , Mr.
Fox ,"
cried the cat.
`` You with your hundred arts are left in the lurch ! Had you been able to climb like me , you would not have lost your life"
The mother of Hans said , `` Whither away , Hans ?"
Hans answered , `` To Grethel"
`` Behave well , Hans"
`` Oh , I 'll behave well.
Good-bye , mother"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans comes to Grethel , `` Good day , Grethel"
`` Good day , Hans.
What dost thou bring that is good ?"
`` I bring nothing , I want to have something given me"
Grethel presents Hans with a needle.
Hans says , `` Good-bye , Grethel"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans takes the needle , sticks it into a hay-cart , and follows the cart home.
`` Good evening , mother"
`` Good evening , Hans.
Where hast thou been ?"
`` With Grethel"
`` What didst thou take her ?"
`` Took nothing ; had something given me"
`` What did Grethel give thee ?"
`` Gave me a needle"
`` Where is the needle , Hans ?"
`` Stuck it in the hay-cart"
`` That was ill done , Hans.
Thou shouldst have stuck the needle in thy sleeve"
`` Never mind , I 'll do better next time"
`` Whither away , Hans ?"
`` To Grethel , mother"
`` Behave well , Hans"
`` Oh , I 'll behave well.
Good-bye , mother"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans comes to Grethel.
`` Good day , Grethel"
`` Good day , Hans.
What dost thou bring that is good ?"
`` I bring nothing ; I want to have something given to me"
Grethel presents Hans with a knife.
`` Good-bye , Grethel"
`` Good-bye Hans"
Hans takes the knife , sticks it in his sleeve , and goes home.
`` Good evening , mother"
`` Good evening , Hans.
Where hast thou been ?"
`` With Grethel"
`` What didst thou take her ?"
`` Took her nothing , she gave me something"
`` What did Grethel give thee ?"
`` Gave me a knife"
`` Where is the knife , Hans ?"
`` Stuck in my sleeve"
`` That 's ill done , Hans , thou shouldst have put the knife in thy pocket"
`` Never mind , will do better next time"
`` Whither away , Hans ?"
`` To Grethel , mother"
`` Behave well , Hans"
`` Oh , I 'll behave well.
Good-bye , mother"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans comes to Grethel.
`` Good day , Grethel"
`` Good day , Hans.
What good thing dost thou bring ?"
`` I bring nothing , I want something given me"
Grethel presents Hans with a young goat.
`` Good-bye , Grethel"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans takes the goat , ties its legs , and puts it in his pocket.
When he gets home it is suffocated.
`` Good evening , mother"
`` Good evening , Hans.
Where hast thou been ?"
`` With Grethel"
`` What didst thou take her ?"
`` Took nothing , she gave me something"
`` What did Grethel give thee ?"
`` She gave me a goat"
`` Where is the goat , Hans ?"
`` Put it in my pocket"
`` That was ill done , Hans , thou shouldst have put a rope round the goat 's neck"
`` Never mind , will do better next time"
`` Whither away , Hans ?"
`` To Grethel , mother"
`` Behave well , Hans"
`` Oh , I 'll behave well.
Good-bye , mother"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans comes to Grethel.
`` Good day , Grethel"
`` Good day , Hans.
What good thing dost thou bring ?"
`` I bring nothing , I want something given me"
Grethel presents Hans with a piece of bacon.
`` Good-bye , Grethel"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans takes the bacon , ties it to a rope , and drags it away behind him.
The dogs come and devour the bacon.
When he gets home , he has the rope in his hand , and there is no longer anything hanging to it.
`` Good evening , mother"
`` Good evening , Hans"
`` Where hast thou been ?"
`` With Grethel"
`` What didst thou take her ?"
`` I took her nothing , she gave me something"
`` What did Grethel give thee ?"
`` Gave me a bit of bacon"
`` Where is the bacon , Hans ?"
`` I tied it to a rope , brought it home , dogs took it"
`` That was ill done , Hans , thou shouldst have carried the bacon on thy head"
`` Never mind , will do better next time"
`` Whither away , Hans ?"
`` To Grethel , mother"
`` Behave well , Hans"
`` I 'll behave well.
Good-bye , mother"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans comes to Grethel.
`` Good day , Grethel"
`` Good day , Hans"
`` What good thing dost thou bring ?"
`` I bring nothing , but would have something given"
Grethel presents Hans with a calf.
`` Good-bye , Grethel"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans takes the calf , puts it on his head , and the calf kicks his face.
`` Good evening , mother"
`` Good evening , Hans.
Where hast thou been ?"
`` With Grethel"
`` What didst thou take her ?"
`` I took nothing , but had something given me"
`` What did Grethel give thee ?"
`` A calf"
`` Where hast thou the calf , Hans ?"
`` I set it on my head and it kicked my face"
`` That was ill done , Hans , thou shouldst have led the calf , and put it in the stall"
`` Never mind , will do better next time"
`` Whither away , Hans ?"
`` To Grethel , mother"
`` Behave well , Hans"
`` I 'll behave well.
Good-bye , mother"
`` Good-bye , Hans"
Hans comes to Grethel.
`` Good day , Grethel"
`` Good day , Hans.
What good thing dost thou bring ?"
`` I bring nothing , but would have something given"
Grethel says to Hans , `` I will go with thee"
Hans takes Grethel , ties her to a rope , leads her to the rack and binds her fast.
Then Hans goes to his mother.
`` Good evening , mother"
`` Good evening , Hans.
Where hast thou been ?"
`` With Grethel"
`` What didst thou take her ?"
`` I took her nothing"
`` What did Grethel give thee ?"
`` She gave me nothing , she came with me"
`` Where hast thou left Grethel ?"
`` I led her by the rope , tied her to the rack , and scattered some grass for her"
`` That was ill done , Hans , thou shouldst have cast friendly eyes on her"
`` Never mind , will do better"
Hans went into the stable , cut out all the calves ' and sheep 's eyes , and threw them in Grethel 's face.
Then Grethel became angry , tore herself loose and ran away , and became the bride of Hans"
`` I was gliding over the Lueneburg Heath ,"
the Moon said.
`` A lonely hut stood by the wayside , a few scanty bushes grew near it , and a nightingale who had lost his way sang sweetly.
He died in the coldness of the night : it was his farewell song that I heard.
`` The morning dawn came glimmering red.
I saw a caravan of emigrant peasant families who were bound to Hamburgh , there to take ship for America , where fancied prosperity would bloom for them.
The mothers carried their little children at their backs , the elder ones tottered by their sides , and a poor starved horse tugged at a cart that bore their scanty effects.
The cold wind whistled , and therefore the little girl nestled closer to the mother , who , looking up at my decreasing disc , thought of the bitter want at home , and spoke of the heavy taxes they had not been able to raise.
The whole caravan thought of the same thing ; therefore , the rising dawn seemed to them a message from the sun , of fortune that was to gleam brightly upon them.
They heard the dying nightingale sing : it was no false prophet , but a harbinger of fortune.
The wind whistled , therefore they did not understand that the nightingale sung , ` Fare away over the sea ! Thou hast paid the long passage with all that was thine , and poor and helpless shalt thou enter Canaan.
Thou must sell thyself , thy wife , and thy children.
But your griefs shall not last long.
Behind the broad fragrant leaves lurks the goddess of Death , and her welcome kiss shall breathe fever into thy blood.
Fare away , fare away , over the heaving billows.
' And the caravan listened well pleased to the song of the nightingale , which seemed to promise good fortune.
Day broke through the light clouds ; country people went across the heath to church : the black-gowned women with their white head-dresses looked like ghosts that had stepped forth from the church pictures.
All around lay a wide dead plain , covered with faded brown heath , and black charred spaces between the white sand hills.
The women carried hymn books , and walked into the church.
Oh , pray , pray for those who are wandering to find graves beyond the foaming billows"
`` I will now give you a picture from Frankfort ,"
said the Moon.
`` I especially noticed one building there.
It was not the house in which Goethe was born , nor the old Council House , through whose grated windows peered the horns of the oxen that were roasted and given to the people when the emperors were crowned.
No , it was a private house , plain in appearance , and painted green.
It stood near the old Jews ' Street.
It was Rothschild 's house.
`` I looked through the open door.
The staircase was brilliantly lighted : servants carrying wax candles in massive silver candlesticks stood there , and bowed low before an old woman , who was being brought downstairs in a litter.
The proprietor of the house stood bare-headed , and respectfully imprinted a kiss on the hand of the old woman.
She was his mother.
She nodded in a friendly manner to him and to the servants , and they carried her into the dark narrow street , into a little house , that was her dwelling.
Here her children had been born , from hence the fortune of the family had arisen.
If she deserted the despised street and the little house , fortune would also desert her children.
That was her firm belief"
The Moon told me no more ; his visit this evening was far too short.
But I thought of the old woman in the narrow despised street.
It would have cost her but a word , and a brilliant house would have arisen for her on the banks of the Thames -- a word , and a villa would have been prepared in the Bay of Naples.
`` If I deserted the lowly house , where the fortunes of my sons first began to bloom , fortune would desert them !"
It was a superstition , but a superstition of such a class , that he who knows the story and has seen this picture , need have only two words placed under the picture to make him understand it ; and these two words are : `` A mother"
`` In the world it 's always going up and down -- and now I ca n't go up any higher !"
So said Ole the tower-keeper.
`` Most people have to try both the ups and the downs ; and , rightly considered , we all get to be watchmen at last , and look down upon life from a height"
Such was the speech of Ole , my friend , the old tower-keeper , a strange talkative old fellow , who seemed to speak out everything that came into his head , and who for all that had many a serious thought deep in his heart.
Yes , he was the child of respectable people , and there were even some who said that he was the son of a privy councillor , or that he might have been ; he had studied too , and had been assistant teacher and deputy clerk ; but of what service was all that to him ? In those days he lived in the clerk 's house , and was to have everything in the house , to be at free quarters , as the saying is ; but he was still , so to speak , a fine young gentleman.
He wanted to have his boots cleaned with patent blacking , and the clerk could only afford ordinary grease ; and upon that point they split -- one spoke of stinginess , the other of vanity , and the blacking became the black cause of enmity between them , and at last they parted.
This is what he demanded of the world in general -- namely , patent blacking -- and he got nothing but grease.
Accordingly he at last drew back from all men , and became a hermit ; but the church tower is the only place in a great city where hermitage , office , and bread can be found together.
So he betook himself up thither , and smoked his pipe as he made his solitary rounds.
He looked upward and downward , and had his own thoughts , and told in his way of what he read in books and in himself.
I often lent him books , good books ; and you may know a man by the company he keeps.
He loved neither the English governess-novels , nor the French ones , which he called a mixture of empty wind and raisin-stalks : he wanted biographies and descriptions of the wonders of the world.
I visited him at least once a year , generally directly after New Year 's - day , and then he always spoke of this and that which the change of the year had put into his head.
I will tell the story of three of these visits , and will reproduce his own words whenever I can remember them"
`` I will give you another picture of Sweden ,"
said the person_0.
`` Among dark pine woods , near the melancholy banks of the Stoxen , lies the old convent church of Wreta.
My rays glided through the grating into the roomy vaults , where kings sleep tranquilly in great stone coffins.
On the wall , above the grave of each , is placed the emblem of earthly grandeur , a kingly crown ; but it is made only of wood , painted and gilt , and is hung on a wooden peg driven into the wall.
The worms have gnawed the gilded wood , the spider has spun her web from the crown down to the sand , like a mourning banner , frail and transient as the grief of mortals.
How quietly they sleep ! I can remember them quite plainly.
I still see the bold smile on their lips , that so strongly and plainly expressed joy or grief.
When the steamboat winds along like a magic snail over the lakes , a stranger often comes to the church , and visits the burial vault ; he asks the names of the kings , and they have a dead and forgotten sound.
He glances with a smile at the worm-eaten crowns , and if he happens to be a pious , thoughtful man , something of melancholy mingles with the smile.
Slumber on , ye dead ones ! The person_0 thinks of you , the person_0 at night sends down his rays into your silent kingdom , over which hangs the crown of pine wood"
When Fatty Coon 's burned feet were well once more , the very first night he left his mother 's house he went straight to the loggers ' camp.
He did not wait long after dark , because he was afraid that some of his neighbors might have found that there were good things to eat about the camp.
And Fatty wanted them all.
To his delight , there were goodies almost without end.
He nosed about , picking up potato peelings , and bits of bacon.
And perhaps the best of all was a piece of cornbread , which Fatty fairly gobbled.
And then he found a box half-full of something -- scraps that tasted like apples , only they were not round like apples , and they were quite dry , instead of being juicy.
But Fatty liked them ; and he ate them all , down to the smallest bit.
He was thirsty , then.
So he went down to the brook , which ran close by the camp.
The loggers had cut a hole through the ice , so they could get water.
And Fatty crept close to the edge of the hole and drank.
He drank a great deal of water , because he was very thirsty.
And when he had finished he sat down on the ice for a time.
He did not care to stir about just then.
And he did not think he would ever want anything to eat again.
At last Fatty Coon rose to his feet.
He felt very queer.
There was a strange , tight feeling about his stomach.
And his sides were no longer thin.
They stuck out just as they had before winter came -- only more so.
And what alarmed Fatty was this : his sides seemed to be sticking out more and more all the time.
He wondered what he had been eating.
Those dry things that tasted like apples -- he wondered what they were.
Now , there was some printing on the outside of the box which held those queer , spongy , flat things.
Of course , Fatty Coon could not read , so the printing did him no good at all.
But if you had seen the box , and if you are old enough to read , you would have known that the printing said :"
Two or three hundred years ago , when people were far from being so crafty and cunning as they are now-a-day , an extraordinary event took place in a little town.
By some mischance one of the great owls , called horned owls , had come from the neighboring woods into the barn of one of the townsfolk in the night-time , and when day broke did not dare to venture forth again from her retreat , for fear of the other birds , which raised a terrible outcry whenever she appeared.
In the morning when the man-servant went into the barn to fetch some straw , he was so mightily alarmed at the sight of the owl sitting there in a corner , that he ran away and announced to his master that a monster , the like of which he had never set eyes on in his life , and which could devour a man without the slightest difficulty , was sitting in the barn , rolling its eyes about in its head.
`` I know you already ,"
said the master , `` you have courage enough to chase a blackbird about the fields , but when you see a dead hen lying , you have to get a stick before you go near it.
I must go and see for myself what kind of a monster it is ,"
added the master , and went quite boldly into the granary and looked round him.
When , however , he saw the strange grim creature with his own eyes , he was no less terrified than the servant had been.
With two bounds he sprang out , ran to his neighbors , and begged them imploringly to lend him assistance against an unknown and dangerous beast , or else the whole town might be in danger if it were to break loose out of the barn , where it was shut up.
A great noise and clamor arose in all the streets , the townsmen came armed with spears , hay-forks , scythes , and axes , as if they were going out against an enemy ; finally , the senators appeared with the burgomaster at their head.
When they had drawn up in the market-place , they marched to the barn , and surrounded it on all sides.
Thereupon one of the most courageous of them stepped forth and entered with his spear lowered , but came running out immediately afterwards with a shriek and as pale as death , and could not utter a single word.
Yet two others ventured in , but they fared no better.
At last one stepped forth ; a great strong man who was famous for his warlike deeds , and said , `` You will not drive away the monster by merely looking at him ; we must be in earnest here , but I see that you have all tuned into women , and not one of you dares to encounter the animal"
He ordered them to give him some armor , had a sword and spear brought , and armed himself.
All praised his courage , though many feared for his life.
The two barn-doors were opened , and they saw the owl , which in the meantime had perched herself on the middle of a great cross-beam.
He had a ladder brought , and when he raised it , and made ready to climb up , they all cried out to him that he was to bear himself bravely , and commended him to St.
George , who slew the dragon.
When he had just got to the top , and the owl perceived that he had designs on her , and was also bewildered by the crowd and the shouting , and knew not how to escape , she rolled her eyes , ruffled her feathers , flapped her wings , snapped her beak , and cried , `` Tuwhit , tuwhoo ,"
in a harsh voice.
`` Strike home ! strike home !"
screamed the crowd outside to the valiant hero.
`` Any one who was standing where I am standing ,"
answered he , `` would not cry , strike home !"
He certainly did plant his foot one rung higher on the ladder , but then he began to tremble , and half-fainting , went back again.
And now there was no one left who dared to put himself in such danger.
`` The monster ,"
said they , `` has poisoned and mortally wounded the very strongest man among us , by snapping at him and just breathing on him ! Are we , too , to risk our lives ?"
They took counsel as to what they ought to do to prevent the whole town being destroyed.
For a long time everything seemed to be of no use , but at length the burgomaster found an expedient.
`` My opinion ,"
said he , `` is that we ought , out of the common purse , to pay for this barn , and whatsoever corn , straw , or hay it contains , and thus indemnify the owner , and then burn down the whole building , and the terrible beast with it.
Thus no one will have to endanger his life.
This is no time for thinking of expense , and niggardliness would be ill applied"
All agreed with him.
So they set fire to the barn at all four corners , and with it the owl was miserably burnt.
Let any one who will not believe it , go thither and inquire for himself"
ONCE upon a time there was a little girl called person_0 , who lived at a farm called Little-town.
She was a good little girl -- only she was always losing her pocket - handkerchiefs ! One day little person_0 came into the farm-yard crying -- oh , she did cry so ! `` I 've lost my pocket-handkin ! Three handkins and a pinny ! Have YOU seen them , Tabby Kitten ?"
THE Kitten went on washing her white paws ; so person_0 asked a speckled hen -- `` Sally Henny-penny , has YOU found three pocket-handkins ?"
But the speckled hen ran into a barn , clucking -- `` I go barefoot , barefoot , barefoot !"
AND then person_0 asked Cock Robin sitting on a twig.
Cock Robin looked sideways at person_0 with his bright black eye , and he flew over a stile and away.
person_0 climbed upon the stile and looked up at the hill behind Little-town -- a hill that goes up -- up -- into the clouds as though it had no top ! And a great way up the hillside she thought she saw some white things spread upon the grass.
LUCIE scrambled up the hill as fast as her stout legs would carry her ; she ran along a steep path-way -- up and up -- until Little-town was right away down below -- she could have dropped a pebble down the chimney ! PRESENTLY she came to a spring , bubbling out from the hill-side.
Some one had stood a tin can upon a stone to catch the water -- but the water was already running over , for the can was no bigger than an egg-cup ! And where the sand upon the path was wet -- there were foot-marks of a VERY small person.
person_0 ran on , and on.
THE path ended under a big rock.
The grass was short and green , and there were clothes-props cut from bracken stems , with lines of plaited rushes , and a heap of tiny clothes pins -- but no pocket-handkerchiefs ! But there was something else -- a door ! straight into the hill ; and inside it some one was singing -- `` Lily-white and clean , oh ! With little frills between , oh ! Smooth and hot -- red rusty spot Never here be seen , oh !"
LUCIE , knocked -- once -- twice , and interrupted the song.
A little frightened voice called out `` Who 's that ?"
person_0 opened the door : and what do you think there was inside the hill ? -- a nice clean kitchen with a flagged floor and wooden beams -- just like any other farm kitchen.
Only the ceiling was so low that person_0 's head nearly touched it ; and the pots and pans were small , and so was everything there.
THERE was a nice hot singey smell ; and at the table , with an iron in her hand stood a very stout short person staring anxiously at person_0.
Her print gown was tucked up , and she was wearing a large apron over her striped petticoat.
Her little black nose went sniffle , sniffle , snuffle , and her eyes went twinkle , twinkle ; and underneath her cap -- where person_0 had yellow curls -- that little person had PRICKLES ! `` WHO are you ?"
said person_0.
`` Have you seen my pocket-handkins ?"
The little person made a bob-curtsey -- `` Oh , yes , if you please 'm ; my name is Mrs.
Tiggy-winkle ; oh , yes if you please 'm , I 'm an excellent clear - starcher !"
And she took something out of a clothes - basket , and spread it on the ironing-blanket.
`` WHAT 'S that thing ?"
said person_0 -- `` that 's not my pocket-handkin ?"
`` Oh no , if you please 'm ; that 's a little scarlet waist-coat belonging to Cock Robin !"
And she ironed it and folded it , and put it on one side.
THEN she took something else off a clothes-horse -- `` That is n't my pinny ?"
said person_0.
`` Oh no , if you please 'm ; that 's a damask table-cloth belonging to Jenny Wren ; look how it 's stained with currant wine ! It 's very bad to wash !"
said Mrs.
Tiggy - winkle"
Thus person_0 's fate was settled , and the general decided to start for the Capital at once , taking person_0 with him.
It need hardly be said that Yama-uba was sad at parting with her boy , for he was all that was left to her.
But she hid her grief with a strong face , as they say in Japan.
She knew that it was for her boy 's good that he should leave her now , and she must not discourage him just as he was setting out.
person_0 promised never to forget her , and said that as soon as he was a knight wearing two swords he would build her a home and take care of her in her old age.
All the animals , those he had tamed to serve him , the bear , the deer , the monkey , and the hare , as soon as they found out that he was going away , came to ask if they might attend him as usual.
When they learned that he was going away for good they followed him to the foot of the mountain to see him off.
`` Kimbo ,"
said his mother , `` mind and be a good boy"
`` Mr.
person_0 ,"
said the faithful animals , `` we wish you good health on your travels"
Then they all climbed a tree to see the last of him , and from that height they watched him and his shadow gradually grow smaller and smaller , till he was lost to sight.
The general Sadamitsu went on his way rejoicing at having so unexpectedly found such a prodigy as person_0.
Having arrived at their destination the general took person_0 at once to his Lord , Minamoto-no-Raiko , and told him all about person_0 and how he had found the child.
Lord Raiko was delighted with the story , and having commanded person_0 to be brought to him , made him one of his vassals at once.
Lord Raiko 's army was famous for its band called `` The Four Braves"
These warriors were chosen by himself from amongst the bravest and strongest of his soldiers , and the small and well-picked band was distinguished throughout the whole of Japan for the dauntless courage of its men.
When person_0 grew up to be a man his master made him the Chief of the Four Braves.
He was by far the strongest of them all.
Soon after this event , news was brought to the city that a cannibal monster had taken up his abode not far away and that people were stricken with fear.
Lord Raiko ordered person_0 to the rescue.
He immediately started off , delighted at the prospect of trying his sword.
Surprising the monster in its den , he made short work of cutting off its great head , which he carried back in triumph to his master.
person_0 now rose to be the greatest hero of his country , and great was the power and honor and wealth that came to him.
He now kept his promise and built a comfortable home for his old mother , who lived happily with him in the Capital to the end of her days.
Is not this the story of a great hero ?"
I AM always inclined to suspect The best story under the sun As soon as by chance I detect That teller and hero are one.
We 're all of us prone to conceit , And like to proclaim our own glory , But our purpose we 're apt to defeat As actors in chief of our story.
To prove the truth of what I state Let me an anecdote relate : A Gascon with his comrade sat At tavern drinking.
This and that He vaunted with assertion pat.
From gasconade to gasconade Passed to the conquests he had made person_0 love.
A buxom country maid , Who served the wine , with due attention Lent patient ear to each invention , And pressed her hands against her side Her bursting merriment to hide.
To hear our Gascon talk , no Sue Nor Poll in town but that he knew ; With each he 'd passed a blissful night More to their own than his delight.
This one he loved for she was fair , That for her glossy ebon hair.
One miss , to tame his cruel rigor , Had brought him gifts.
-- She owned his vigor person_0 short it wanted but his gaze To set each trembling heart ablaze.
His strength surpassed his luck , -- the test -- person_0 one short night ten times he 'd blessed A dame who gratefully expressed Her thanks with corresponding zest.
At this the maid burst forth , `` What more ? `` I never heard such lies before ! `` Content were I if at that sport `` I had what that poor dame was short"
There lived in a certain place a Brahman , whose name was Svabhavak_ri_pa_n_a , which means `` a born miser"
He had collected a quantity of rice by begging , and after having dined off it , he filled a pot with what was left over.
He hung the pot on a peg on the wall , placed his couch beneath , and looking intently at it all the night , he thought , `` Ah , that pot is indeed brimful of rice.
Now , if there should be a famine , I should certainly make a hundred rupees by it.
With this I shall buy a couple of goats.
They will have young ones every six months , and thus I shall have a whole herd of goats.
Then , with the goats , I shall buy cows.
As soon as they have calved , I shall sell the calves.
Then , with the calves , I shall buy buffaloes ; with the buffaloes , mares.
When the mares have foaled , I shall have plenty of horses ; and when I sell them , plenty of gold.
With that gold I shall get a house with four wings.
And then a Brahman will come to my house , and will give me his beautiful daughter , with a large dowry.
She will have a son , and I shall call him Somasarman.
When he is old enough to be danced on his father 's knee , I shall sit with a book at the back of the stable , and while I am reading , the boy will see me , jump from his mother 's lap , and run towards me to be danced on my knee.
He will come too near the horse 's hoof , and , full of anger , I shall call to my wife , ` Take the baby ; take him ! ' But she , distracted by some domestic work , does not hear me.
Then I get up , and give her such a kick with my foot"
While he thought this , he gave a kick with his foot , and broke the pot.
All the rice fell over him , and made him quite white.
Therefore , I say , `` He who makes foolish plans for the future will be white all over , like the father of Somasarman"
In a certain country there was once great lamentation over a wild boar that laid waste the farmer 's fields , killed the cattle , and ripped up people 's bodies with his tusks.
The person_0 promised a large reward to anyone who would free the land from this plague ; but the beast was so big and strong that no one dared to go near the forest in which it lived.
At last the person_0 gave notice that whosoever should capture or kill the wild boar should have his only daughter to wife.
Now there lived in the country two brothers , sons of a poor man , who declared themselves willing to undertake the hazardous enterprise ; the elder , who was crafty and shrewd , out of pride ; the younger , who was innocent and simple , from a kind heart.
The person_0 said , `` In order that you may be the more sure of finding the beast , you must go into the forest from opposite sides"
So the elder went in on the west side , and the younger on the east.
When the younger had gone a short way , a little man stepped up to him.
He held in his hand a black spear and said , `` I give you this spear because your heart is pure and good ; with this you can boldly attack the wild boar , and it will do you no harm"
He thanked the little man , shouldered the spear , and went on fearlessly.
Before long he saw the beast , which rushed at him ; but he held the spear towards it , and in its blind fury it ran so swiftly against it that its heart was cloven in twain.
Then he took the monster on his back and went homewards with it to the person_0.
As he came out at the other side of the wood , there stood at the entrance a house where people were making merry with wine and dancing.
His elder brother had gone in here , and , thinking that after all the boar would not run away from him , was going to drink until he felt brave.
But when he saw his young brother coming out of the wood laden with his booty , his envious , evil heart gave him no peace.
He called out to him , `` Come in , dear brother , rest and refresh yourself with a cup of wine"
The youth , who suspected no evil , went in and told him about the good little man who had given him the spear wherewith he had slain the boar.
The elder brother kept him there until the evening , and then they went away together , and when in the darkness they came to a bridge over a brook , the elder brother let the other go first ; and when he was half-way across he gave him such a blow from behind that he fell down dead.
He buried him beneath the bridge , took the boar , and carried it to the person_0 , pretending that he had killed it ; whereupon he obtained the person_0 's daughter in marriage.
And when his younger brother did not come back he said , `` The boar must have killed him ,"
and every one believed it.
But as nothing remains hidden from God , so this black deed also was to come to light.
Years afterwards a shepherd was driving his herd across the bridge , and saw lying in the sand beneath , a snow-white little bone.
He thought that it would make a good mouth-piece , so he clambered down , picked it up , and cut out of it a mouth-piece for his horn.
But when he blew through it for the first time , to his great astonishment , the bone began of its own accord to sing : `` Ah , friend , thou blowest upon my bone ! Long have I lain beside the water ; My brother slew me for the boar , And took for his wife the person_0 's young daughter"
`` What a wonderful horn !"
said the shepherd ; `` it sings by itself ; I must take it to my lord the person_0"
And when he came with it to the person_0 the horn again began to sing its little song.
The person_0 understood it all , and caused the ground below the bridge to be dug up , and then the whole skeleton of the murdered man came to light.
The wicked brother could not deny the deed , and was sewn up in a sack and drowned.
But the bones of the murdered man were laid to rest in a beautiful tomb in the churchyard"
The cock once said to the hen , `` It is now the time when our nuts are ripe , so let us go to the hill together and for once eat our fill before the squirrel takes them all away"
`` Yes ,"
replied the hen , `` come , we will have some pleasure together"
Then they went away to the hill , and on it was a bright day they stayed till evening.
Now I do not know whether it was that they had eaten till they were too fat , or whether they had become proud , but they would not go home on foot , and the cock had to build a little carriage of nut-shells.
When it was ready , the little hen seated herself in it and said to the cock , `` Thou canst just harness thyself to it"
`` I like that !"
said the cock , `` I would rather go home on foot than let myself be harnessed to it ; no , that is not our bargain.
I do not mind being coachman and sitting on the box , but drag it myself I will not"
As they were thus disputing , a duck quacked to them , `` You thieving folks , who bade you go to my nut-hill ? Well , you shall suffer for it !"
and ran with open beak at the cock.
But the cock also was not idle , and fell boldly on the duck , and at last wounded her so with his spurs that she also begged for mercy , and willingly let herself be harnessed to the carriage as a punishment.
The little cock now seated himself on the box and was coachman , and thereupon they went off in a gallop , with `` Duck , go as fast as thou canst"
When they had driven a part of the way they met two foot-passengers , a pin and a needle.
They cried , `` Stop ! stop !"
and said that it would soon be as dark as pitch , and then they could not go a step further , and that it was so dirty on the road , and asked if they could not get into the carriage for a while.
They had been at the tailor 's public-house by the gate , and had stayed too long over the beer.
As they were thin people , who did not take up much room , the cock let them both get in , but they had to promise him and his little hen not to step on their feet.
Late in the evening they came to an inn , and as they did not like to go further by night , and as the duck also was not strong on her feet , and fell from one side to the other , they went in.
The host at first made many objections , his house was already full , besides he thought they could not be very distinguished persons ; but at last , as they made pleasant speeches , and told him that he should have the egg which the little hen has laid on the way , and should likewise keep the duck , which laid one every day , he at length said that they might stay the night.
And now they had themselves well served , and feasted and rioted.
Early in the morning , when day was breaking , and every one was asleep , the cock awoke the hen , brought the egg , pecked it open , and they ate it together , but they threw the shell on the hearth.
Then they went to the needle which was still asleep , took it by the head and stuck it into the cushion of the landlord 's chair , and put the pin in his towel , and at the last without more ado they flew away over the heath.
The duck who liked to sleep in the open air and had stayed in the yard , heard them going away , made herself merry and found a stream , down which she swam , which was a much quicker way of traveling than being harnessed to a carriage.
The host did not get out of bed for two hours after this ; he washed himself and wanted to dry himself , then the pin went over his face and made a red streak from one ear to the other.
After this he went into the kitchen and wanted to light a pipe , but when he came to the hearth the egg-shell darted into his eyes.
`` This morning everything attacks my head ,"
said he , and angrily sat down on his grandfather 's chair , but he quickly started up again and cried , `` Woe is me ,"
for the needle had pricked him still worse than the pin , and not in the head.
Now he was thoroughly angry , and suspected the guests who had come so late the night before , and when he went and looked about for them , they were gone.
Then he made a vow to take no more ragamuffins into his house , for they consume much , pay for nothing , and play mischievous tricks into the bargain by way of gratitude"
A CLOISTERED nun had a lover Dwelling in the neighb ` ring town ; Both racked their brains to discover How they best their love might crown.
The swain to pass the convent-door ! -- No easy matter ! -- Thus they swore , And wished it light.
-- I ne'er knew a nun In such a pass to be outdone : -- In woman 's clothes the youth must dress , And gain admission.
I confess The ruse has oft been tried before , But it succeeded as of yore.
Together in a close barred cell The lovers were , and sewed all day , Nor heeded how time flew away.
-- `` What 's that I hear ? Refection bell !"
` Tis time to part.
Adieu ! -- Farewell ! -- `` How 's this ?"
exclaimed the abbess , `` why `` The last at table ?"
-- `` Madam , I `` Have had my dress-maker"
-- `` The rent `` On which you 've both been so intent `` Is hard to stop , for the whole day `` To sew and mend , you made her stay ; `` Much work indeed you 've had to do !"
-- Madam , ` t would last the whole night through , `` When in our task we find enjoyment `` There is no end of the employment"
In former times , when God himself still walked the earth , the fruitfulness of the soil was much greater than it is now ; then the ears of corn did not bear fifty or sixty , but four or five hundred-fold.
Then the corn grew from the bottom to the very top o f the stalk , and according to the length of the stalk was the length of the ear.
Men however are so made , that when they are too well off they no longer value the blessings which come from God , but grow indifferent and careless.
One day a woman was passing by a corn-field when her little child , who was running beside her , fell into a puddle , and dirtied her frock.
On this the mother tore up a handful of the beautiful ears of corn , and cleaned the frock with them.
When the Lord , who just then came by , saw that , he was angry , and said , `` Henceforth shall the stalks of corn bear no more ears ; men are no longer worthy of heavenly gifts"
The by-standers who heard this , were terrified , and fell on their knees and prayed that he would still leave something on the stalks , even if the people were undeserving of it , for the sake of the innocent birds which would otherwise have to starve.
The Lord , who foresaw their suffering , had pity on them , and granted the request.
So the ears were left as they now grow"
A merchant had done good business at the fair ; he had sold his wares , and lined his money-bags with gold and silver.
Then he wanted to travel homewards , and be in his own house before nightfall.
So he packed his trunk with the money on his horse , and rode away.
At noon he rested in a town , and when he wanted to go farther the stable-boy brought out his horse and said , `` A nail is wanting , sir , in the shoe of its left hind foot"
`` Let it be wanting ,"
answered the merchant ; `` the shoe will certainly stay on for the six miles I have still to go.
I am in a hurry"
In the afternoon , when he once more alighted and had his horse fed , the stable-boy went into the room to him and said , `` Sir , a shoe is missing from your horse 's left hind foot.
Shall I take him to the blacksmith ?"
`` Let it still be wanting ,"
answered the man ; `` the horse can very well hold out for the couple of miles which remain.
I am in haste"
He rode forth , but before long the horse began to limp.
It had not limped long before it began to stumble , and it had not stumbled long before it fell down and broke its leg.
The merchant was forced to leave the horse where it was , and unbuckle the trunk , take it on his back , and go home on foot.
And there he did not arrive until quite late at night.
`` And that unlucky nail ,"
said he to himself , `` has caused all this disaster"
Hasten slowly"
A little brother and sister were once playing by a well , and while they were thus playing , they both fell in.
A water-nix lived down below , who said , `` Now I have got you , now you shall work hard for me !"
and carried them off with her.
She gave the girl dirty tangled flax to spin , and she had to fetch water in a bucket with a hole in it , and the boy had to hew down a tree with a blunt axe , and they got nothing to eat but dumplings as hard as stones.
Then at last the children became so impatient , that they waited until one Sunday , when the nix was at church , and ran away.
But when church was over , the nix saw that the birds were flown , and followed them with great strides.
The children saw her from afar , and the girl threw a brush behind her which formed an immense hill of bristles , with thousands and thousands of spikes , over which the nix was forced to scramble with great difficulty ; at last , however , she got over.
When the children saw this , the boy threw behind him a comb which made a great hill of combs with a thousand times a thousand teeth , but the nix managed to keep herself steady on them , and at last crossed over that.
Then the girl threw behind her a looking-glass which formed a hill of mirrors , and was so slippery that it was impossible for the nix to cross it.
Then she thought , `` I will go home quickly and fetch my axe , and cut the hill of glass in half"
Long before she returned , however , and had hewn through the glass , the children had escaped to a great distance , and the water-nix was obliged to betake herself to her well again"
AXIOCHUS , a handsome youth of old , And Alcibiades , -LRB- both gay and bold , -RRB- So well agreed , they kept a beauteous belle , With whom by turns they equally would dwell.
IT happened , one of them so nicely played , The fav ` rite lass produced a little maid , Which both extolled , and each his own believed , Though doubtless one or t ` other was deceived.
BUT when to riper years the bantling grew , And sought her mother 's foot-steps to pursue , Each friend desired to be her chosen swain , And neither would a parent 's name retain.
SAID one , why brother , she 's your very shade ; The features are the same - : - your looks pervade.
Oh no , the other cried , it can not be Her chin , mouth , nose , and eyes , with your 's agree ; But that as ` twill , let me her favors win , And for the pleasure I will risk the sin"
There was once on a time a shepherd boy whose fame spread far and wide because of the wise answers which he gave to every question.
The person_0 of the country heard of it likewise , but did not believe it , and sent for the boy.
Then he said to him , `` If thou canst give me an answer to three questions which I will ask thee , I will look on thee as my own child , and thou shalt dwell with me in my royal palace"
The boy said , `` What are the three questions ?"
The person_0 said , `` The first is , how many drops of water are there in the ocean ?"
The shepherd boy answered , `` Lord person_0 , if you will have all the rivers on earth dammed up so that not a single drop runs from them into the sea until I have counted it , I will tell you how many drops there are in the sea"
The person_0 said , `` The next question is , how many stars are there in the sky ?"
The shepherd boy said , `` Give me a great sheet of white paper ,"
and then he made so many fine points on it with a pen that they could scarcely be seen , and it was all but impossible to count them ; any one who looked at them would have lost his sight.
Then he said , `` There are as many stars in the sky as there are points on the paper ; just count them"
But no one was able to do it.
The person_0 said , `` The third question is , how many seconds of time are there in eternity"
Then said the shepherd boy , `` In Lower Pomerania is the Diamond Mountain , which is two miles and a half high , two miles and a half wide , and two miles and a half in depth ; every hundred years a little bird comes and sharpens its beak on it , and when the whole mountain is worn away by this , then the first second of eternity will be over"
The person_0 said , `` Thou hast answered the three questions like a wise man , and shalt henceforth dwell with me in my royal palace , and I will regard thee as my own child"
ONCE more permit me , nuns , and this the last ; I ca n't resist , whatever may have passed , But must relate , what often I 've been told ; Your tales of convent pranks are seldom cold ; They have a grace that no where else we find , And , somehow , better seem to please designed.
Another then we 'll have , which three will make : -- Three did I say ? - ` tis four , or I mistake ; Let 's count them well : - The GARD ` NER first , we 'll name ; Then comes the ABBESS , whose declining frame Required a youth , her malady to cure A story thought , perhaps , not over pure ; And , as to SISTER JANE , who 'd got a brat , I can not fancy we should alter that.
These are the whole , and four 's a number round ; You 'll probably remark , ` tis strange I 've found Such pleasure in detailing convent scenes : -- ` Tis not my whim , but TASTE , that thither leans : And , if you 'd kept your breviary in view , ` Tis clear , you 'd nothing had with this to do ; We know , howe'er , ` tis not your fondest care ; So ,"
There was once on a time a maiden who was pretty , but idle and negligent.
When she had to spin she was so out of temper that if there was a little knot in the flax , she at once pulled out a whole heap of it , and strewed it about on the ground beside her.
Now she had a servant who was industrious , and gathered together the bits of flax which were thrown away , cleaned them , span them fine , and had a beautiful gown made out of them for herself.
A young man had wooed the lazy girl , and the wedding was to take place.
On the eve of the wedding , the industrious one was dancing merrily about in her pretty dress , and the bride said , -- `` Ah , how that girl does jump about , dressed in my odds and ends"
The bridegroom heard that , and asked the bride what she meant by it ? Then she told him that the girl was wearing a dress make of the flax which she had thrown away.
When the bridegroom heard that , and saw how idle she was , and how industrious the poor girl was , he gave her up and went to the other , and chose her as his wife"
The storks tell their little ones very many stories , all of the moor and the marsh.
These stories are generally adapted to the age and capacity of the hearers.
The youngest are content if they are told `` Kribble-krabble , plurre-murre"
as a story , and find it charming ; but the older ones want something with a deeper meaning , or at any rate something relating to the family.
Of the two oldest and longest stories that have been preserved among the storks , we are only acquainted with one , namely , that of Moses , who was exposed by his mother on the banks of the person_4 , and whom the king 's daughter found , and who afterwards became a great man and a prophet.
That history is very well known.
The second is not known yet , perhaps , because it is quite an inland story.
It has been handed down from mouth to mouth , from stork-mamma to stork-mamma , for thousands of years , and each of them has told it better and better ; and now _ we _ 'll tell it best of all.
The first stork pair who told the story had their summer residence on the wooden house of the person_1 , which lay by the wild moor in Wendsyssel ; that is to say , if we are to speak out of the abundance of our knowledge , hard by the great moor in the circle of Hjoerring , high up by the Skagen , the northern point of Jutland.
The wilderness there is still a great wide moor-heath , about which we can read in the official description of districts.
It is said that in old times there was here a sea , whose bottom was upheaved ; now the moorland extends for miles on all sides , surrounded by damp meadows , and unsteady shaking swamp , and turfy moor , with blueberries and stunted trees.
Mists are almost always hovering over this region , which seventy years ago was still inhabited by wolves.
It is certainly rightly called the `` wild moor ;"
and one can easily think how dreary and lonely it must have been , and how much marsh and lake there was here a thousand years ago.
Yes , in detail , exactly the same things were seen then that may yet be beheld.
The reeds had the same height , and bore the same kind of long leaves and bluish-brown feathery plumes that they bear now ; the birch stood there , with its white bark and its fine loosely-hanging leaves , just as now ; and as regards the living creatures that dwelt here -- why , the fly wore its gauzy dress of the same cut that it wears now ; and the favorite colors of the stork were white picked out with black , and red stockings.
The people certainly wore coats of a different cut to those they now wear ; but whoever stepped out on the shaking moorland , be he huntsman or follower , master or servant , met with the same fate a thousand years ago that he would meet with to-day.
He sank and went down to the `` marsh king ,"
as they called him , who ruled below in the great moorland empire.
They also called him `` gungel king ;"
but we like the name `` marsh king"
better , and by that we 'll call him , as the storks did.
Very little is known of the marsh king 's rule ; but perhaps that is a good thing.
In the neighborhood of the moorland , hard by the great arm of the German Ocean and the Cattegat , which is called the Luemfjorden , lay the wooden house of the person_1 , with its stone water-tight cellars , with its tower and its three projecting stories.
On the roof the stork had built his nest ; and stork-mamma there hatched the eggs , and felt sure that her hatching would come to something.
One evening stork-papa stayed out very long ; and when he came home he looked very bustling and important.
`` I 've something very terrible to tell you ,"
he said to the stork-mamma.
`` Let that be ,"
she replied.
`` Remember that I 'm hatching the eggs , and you might agitate me , and I might do them a mischief"
`` You must know it ,"
he continued.
`` She has arrived here -- the daughter of our host in person_6 -- she has dared to undertake the journey here -- and she 's gone !"
`` She who came from the race of the fairies ? Oh , tell me all about it ! You know I ca n't bear to be kept long in suspense when I 'm hatching eggs"
`` You see , mother , she believed in what the doctor said , and you told me true.
She believed that the moor flowers would bring healing to her sick father , and she has flown here in swan 's plumage , in company with the other swan-princesses , who come to the person_2 every year to renew their youth.
She has come here , and she is gone !"
`` You are much too long-winded !"
exclaimed the stork-mamma , `` and the eggs might catch cold.
I ca n't bear being kept in such suspense !"
`` I have kept watch ,"
said the stork-papa ; `` and to-night , when I went into the reeds -- there where the marsh ground will bear me -- three swans came.
Something in their flight seemed to say to me , ` Look out ! That 's not altogether swan ; it 's only swan 's feathers ! ' Yes , mother , you have a feeling of intuition just as I have ; you know whether a thing is right or wrong"
`` Yes , certainly ,"
she replied ; `` but tell me about the princess.
I 'm sick of hearing of the swan 's feathers"
`` Well , you know that in the middle of the moor there is something like a lake ,"
continued stork-papa.
`` You can see one corner of it if you raise yourself a little.
There , by the reeds and the green mud , lay a great alder stump ; and on this the three swans sat , flapping their wings and looking about them.
One of them threw off her plumage , and I immediately recognized her as our house princess from person_6 ! There she sat , with no covering but her long black hair.
I heard her tell the others to pay good heed to the swan 's plumage , while she dived down into the water to pluck the flowers which she fancied she saw growing there.
The others nodded , and picked up the empty feather dress and took care of it.
` I wonder what they will do with it ? ' thought I ; and perhaps she asked herself the same question.
If so , she got an answer -- a very practical answer -- for the two rose up and flew away with her swan 's plumage.
` Do thou dive down , ' they cried ; ` thou shalt never see person_6 again ! Remain thou here in the moor ! ' And so saying , they tore the swan 's plumage into a thousand pieces , so that the feathers whirled about like a snow-storm ; and away they flew -- the two faithless princesses !"
-LRB- person_3 : THE PRINCESS LEFT IN THE MARSH.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Why , that is terrible !"
said stork-mamma.
`` I ca n't bear to hear any more of it.
But now tell me what happened next"
`` The princess wept and lamented aloud.
Her tears fell fast on the alder stump , and the latter moved ; for it was not a regular alder stump , but the marsh king -- he who lives and rules in the depths of the moor ! I myself saw it -- how the stump of the tree turned round , and ceased to be a tree stump ; long thin branches grew forth from it like arms.
Then the poor child was terribly frightened , and sprang up to flee away.
She hurried across to the green slimy ground ; but that can not even carry me , much less her.
She sank immediately , and the alder stump dived down too ; and it was he who drew her down.
Great black bubbles rose up out of the moor-slime , and the last trace of both of them vanished when these burst.
Now the princess is buried in the wild moor , and never more will she bear away a flower to person_6.
Your heart would have burst , mother , if you had seen it"
`` You ought not to tell me anything of the kind at such a time as this ,"
said stork-mamma ; `` the eggs might suffer by it.
The princess will find some way of escape ; some one will come to help her.
If it had been you or I , or one of our people , it would certainly have been all over with us"
`` But I shall go and look every day to see if anything happens ,"
said stork-papa.
And he was as good as his word.
A long time had passed , when at last he saw a green stalk shooting up out of the deep moor-ground.
When it reached the surface , a leaf spread out and unfolded itself broader and broader ; close by it , a bud came out.
And one morning , when stork-papa flew over the stalk , the bud opened through the power of the strong sunbeams , and in the cup of the flower lay a beautiful child -- a little girl -- looking just as if she had risen out of the bath.
The little one so closely resembled the princess from person_6 , that at the first moment the stork thought it must be the princess herself ; but , on second thoughts , it appeared more probable that it must be the daughter of the princess and of the marsh king ; and that also explained her being placed in the cup of the water-lily.
`` But she can not possibly be left lying there ,"
thought stork-papa ; `` and in my nest there are so many persons already.
But stay , I have a thought.
The wife of the person_1 has no children , and how often has she not wished for a little one ! People always say , ` The stork has brought a little one ; ' and I will do so in earnest this time.
I shall fly with the child to the person_1 's wife.
What rejoicing there will be yonder !"
And the stork lifted the little girl out of the flower-cup , flew to the wooden house , picked a hole with his beak in the bladder-covered window , laid the charming child on the bosom of the person_1 's wife , and then hurried up to the stork-mamma , and told her what he had seen and done ; and the little storks listened to the story , for they were big enough to do so now.
`` So you see ,"
he concluded , `` the princess is not dead , for she must have sent the little one up here ; and now that is provided for too"
`` Ah , I said it would be so , from the very beginning !"
said the stork-mamma ; `` but now think a little of your own family.
Our traveling time is drawing on ; sometimes I feel quite restless in my wings already.
The cuckoo and the nightingale have started ; and I heard the quails saying that they were going too , so soon as the wind was favourable.
Our young ones will behave well at the exercising , or I am much deceived in them"
The person_1 's wife was extremely glad when she woke next morning and found the charming infant lying in her arms.
She kissed and caressed it ; but it cried violently , and struggled with its arms and legs , and did not seem rejoiced at all.
At length it cried itself to sleep ; and as it lay there still and tranquil , it looked exceedingly beautiful.
The person_1 's wife was in high glee : she felt light in body and soul ; her heart leapt within her ; and it seemed to her as if her husband and his warriors , who were absent , must return quite as suddenly and unexpectedly as the little one had come.
Therefore she and the whole household had enough to do in preparing everything for the reception of her lord.
The long colored curtains of tapestry , which she and her maids had worked , and on which they had woven pictures of their idols , Odin , Thor , and Freya , were hung up ; the slaves polished the old shields , that served as ornaments ; and cushions were placed on the benches , and dry wood laid on the fireplace in the midst of the hall , so that the flame might be fanned up at a moment 's notice.
The person_1 's wife herself assisted in the work , so that towards evening she was very tired , and went to sleep quickly and lightly.
When she awoke towards morning , she was violently alarmed , for the infant had vanished ! She sprang from her couch , lighted a pine-torch , and searched all round about ; and , behold , in the part of the bed where she had stretched her feet , lay , not the child , but a great ugly frog ! She was horror-struck at the sight , and seized a heavy stick to kill the frog ; but the creature looked at her with such strange , mournful eyes , that she was not able to strike the blow.
Once more she looked round the room -- the frog uttered a low , wailing croak , and she started , sprang from the couch , and ran to the window and opened it.
At that moment the sun shone forth , and flung its beams through the window on the couch and on the great frog ; and suddenly it appeared as though the frog 's great mouth contracted and became small and red , and its limbs moved and stretched and became beautifully symmetrical , and it was no longer an ugly frog which lay there , but her pretty child ! `` What is this ?"
she said.
`` Have I had a bad dream ? Is it not my own lovely cherub lying there ?"
And she kissed and hugged it ; but the child struggled and fought like a little wild cat.
Not on this day nor on the morrow did the person_1 return , although he certainly was on his way home ; but the wind was against him , for it blew towards the south , favourably for the storks.
A good wind for one is a contrary wind for another.
When one or two more days and nights had gone , the person_1 's wife clearly understood how the case was with her child , that a terrible power of sorcery was upon it.
By day it was charming as an angel of light , though it had a wild , savage temper ; but at night it became an ugly frog , quiet and mournful , with sorrowful eyes.
Here were two natures changing inwardly as well as outwardly with the sunlight.
The reason of this was that by day the child had the form of its mother , but the disposition of its father ; while , on the contrary , at night the paternal descent became manifest in its bodily appearance , though the mind and heart of the mother then became dominant in the child.
Who might be able to loosen this charm that wicked sorcery had worked ? The wife of the person_1 lived in care and sorrow about it ; and yet her heart yearned towards the little creature , of whose condition she felt she should not dare tell her husband on his return ; for he would probably , according to the custom which then prevailed , expose the child on the public highway , and let whoever listed take it away.
The good person_1 woman could not find it in her heart to allow this , and she therefore determined that the person_1 should never see the child except by daylight.
One morning the wings of storks were heard rushing over the roof ; more than a hundred pairs of those birds had rested from their exercise during the previous night , and now they soared aloft , to travel southwards.
`` All males here , and ready ,"
they cried ; `` and the wives and children too"
`` How light we feel !"
screamed the young storks in chorus : `` it seems to be creeping all over us , down into our very toes , as if we were filled with frogs.
Ah , how charming it is , traveling to foreign lands !"
`` Mind you keep close to us during your flight ,"
said papa and mamma.
`` Do n't use your beaks too much , for that tires the chest"
And the storks flew away.
At the same time the sound of the trumpets rolled across the heath , for the person_1 had landed with his warriors ; they were returning home , richly laden with spoil , from the Gallic coast , where the people , as in the land of the Britons , sang in frightened accents : `` Deliver us from the wild person_2men !"
-LRB- person_3 : THE VIKING 'S FEAST.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa And life and tumultuous joy came with them into the person_1 's castle on the moorland.
The great mead tub was brought into the hall , the pile of wood was set ablaze , horses were killed , and a great feast was to begin.
The officiating priest sprinkled the slaves with the warm blood ; the fire crackled , the smoke rolled along beneath the roof ; but they were accustomed to that.
Guests were invited , and received handsome gifts : all feuds and all malice were forgotten.
And the company drank deep , and threw the bones of the feast in each others ' faces , and this was considered a sign of good humor.
The bard , a kind of minstrel , but who was also a warrior , and had been on the expedition with the rest , sang them a song , in which they heard all their warlike deeds praised , and everything remarkable specially noticed.
Every verse ended with the burden : `` Goods and gold , friends and foes will die ; every man must one day die ; But a famous name will never die !"
And with that they beat upon their shields , and hammered the table in glorious fashion with bones and knives.
The person_1 's wife sat upon the high seat in the open hall.
She wore a silken dress , and golden armlets , and great amber beads : she was in her costliest garb.
And the bard mentioned her in his song , and sang of the rich treasure she had brought her rich husband.
The latter was delighted with the beautiful child , which he had seen in the daytime in all its loveliness ; and the savage ways of the little creature pleased him especially.
He declared that the girl might grow up to be a stately heroine , strong and determined as a man.
She would not wink her eyes when a practiced hand cut off her eyebrows with a sword by way of a jest.
The full mead barrel was emptied , and a fresh one brought in ; for these were people who liked to enjoy all things plentifully.
The old proverb was indeed well known , which says , `` The cattle know when they should quit the pasture , but a foolish man knoweth not the measure of his own appetite"
Yes , they knew it well enough ; but one _ knows _ one thing , and one _ does _ another.
They also knew that `` even the welcome guest becomes wearisome when he sitteth long in the house ;"
but for all that they sat still , for pork and mead are good things ; and there was high carousing , and at night the bondmen slept among the warm ashes , and dipped their fingers in the fat grease and licked them.
Those were glorious times ! Once more in the year the person_1 sallied forth , though the storms of autumn already began to roar : he went with his warriors to the shores of Britain , for he declared that was but an excursion across the water ; and his wife stayed at home with the little girl.
And thus much is certain , that the poor lady soon got to love the frog with its gentle eyes and its sorrowful sighs , almost better than the pretty child that bit and beat all around her.
The rough damp mist of autumn , which devours the leaves of the forest , had already descended upon thicket and heath.
`` Birds feather-less ,"
as they called the snow , flew in thick masses , and winter was coming on fast.
The sparrows took possession of the storks ' nests , and talked about the absent proprietors according to their fashion ; but these -- the stork pair , with all the young ones -- what had become of them ? The storks were now in the land of person_6 , where the sun sent forth warm rays , as it does here on a fine midsummer day.
Tamarinds and acacias bloomed in the country all around ; the crescent of Mahomet glittered from the cupolas of the temples , and on the slender towers sat many a stork pair resting after the long journey.
Great troops divided the nests , built close together on venerable pillars and in fallen temple arches of forgotten cities.
The date-palm lifted up its screen as if it would be a sunshade ; the greyish-white pyramids stood like masses of shadow in the clear air of the far desert , where the ostrich ran his swift career , and the lion gazed with his great grave eyes at the marble sphinx which lay half buried in the sand.
The waters of the person_4 had fallen , and the whole river bed was crowded with frogs , and this spectacle was just according to the taste of the stork family.
The young storks thought it was optical illusion , they found everything so glorious.
`` Yes , it 's delightful here ; and it 's always like this in our warm country ,"
said the stork-mamma ; and the young ones felt quite frisky on the strength of it.
`` Is there anything more to be seen ?"
they asked.
`` Are we to go much farther into the country ?"
`` There 's nothing further to be seen ,"
answered stork-mamma.
`` Behind this delightful region there are luxuriant forests , whose branches are interlaced with one another , while prickly climbing plants close up the paths -- only the elephant can force a way for himself with his great feet ; and the snakes are too big , and the lizards too quick for us.
If you go into the desert , you 'll get your eyes full of sand when there 's a light breeze , but when it blows great guns you may get into the middle of a pillar of sand.
It is best to stay here , where there are frogs and locusts.
I shall stay here , and you shall stay too"
And there they remained.
The parents sat in the nest on the slender minaret , and rested , and yet were busily employed smoothing and cleaning their feathers , and whetting their beaks against their red stockings.
Now and then they stretched out their necks , and bowed gravely , and lifted their heads , with their high foreheads and fine smooth feathers , and looked very clever with their brown eyes.
The female young ones strutted about in the juicy reeds , looked slyly at the other young storks , made acquaintances , and swallowed a frog at every third step , or rolled a little snake to and fro in their bills , which they thought became them well , and , moreover , tasted nice.
The male young ones began a quarrel , beat each other with their wings , struck with their beaks , and even pricked each other till the blood came.
And in this way sometimes one couple was betrothed , and sometimes another , of the young ladies and gentlemen , and that was just what they wanted , and their chief object in life : then they took to a new nest , and began new quarrels , for in hot countries people are generally hot-tempered and passionate.
But it was pleasant for all that , and the old people especially were much rejoiced , for all that young people do seems to suit them well.
There was sunshine every day , and every day plenty to eat , and nothing to think of but pleasure.
But in the rich castle at the person_6ian host 's , as they called him , there was no pleasure to be found.
The rich mighty lord reclined on his divan , in the midst of the great hall of the many-coloured walls , looking as if he were sitting in a tulip ; but he was stiff and powerless in all his limbs , and lay stretched out like a mummy.
His family and servants surrounded him , for he was not dead , though one could not exactly say that he was alive.
The healing moor flower from the person_2 , which was to have been found and brought home by her who loved him best , never appeared.
His beauteous young daughter , who had flown in the swan 's plumage over sea and land , to the far person_2 , was never to come back.
`` She is dead !"
the two returning swan-maidens had said , and they had concocted a complete story , which ran as follows : `` We three together flew high in the air : a hunter saw us , and shot his arrow at us ; it struck our young companion and friend ; and slowly , singing her farewell song , she sunk down , a dying swan , into the woodland lake.
By the shore of the lake , under a weeping birch tree , we laid her in the cool earth.
But we had our revenge.
We bound fire under the wings of the swallow who had her nest beneath the huntsman 's thatch ; the house burst into flames , the huntsman was burnt in the house , and the glare shone over the sea as far as the hanging birch beneath which she sleeps.
Never will she return to the land of person_6"
And then the two wept.
And when stork-papa heard the story , he clapped with his beak so that it could be heard a long way off.
-LRB- person_3 : THE KING OF EGYPT DECEIVED BY THE PRINCESSES.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Treachery and lies !"
he cried.
`` I should like to run my beak deep into their chests"
`` And perhaps break it off ,"
interposed the stork-mamma ; `` and then you would look well.
Think first of yourself , and then of your family , and all the rest does not concern you"
`` But to-morrow I shall seat myself at the edge of the open cupola , when the wise and learned men assemble , to consult on the sick man 's state : perhaps they may come a little nearer the truth"
And the learned and wise men came together and spoke a great deal , out of which the stork could make no sense -- and it had no result , either for the sick man or for the daughter in the swampy waste.
But for all that we may listen to what the people said , for we have to listen to a great deal of talk in the world.
But then it 's an advantage to hear what went before , what has been said ; and in this case we are well informed , for we know just as much about it as stork-papa.
`` Love gives life ! the highest love gives the highest life ! Only through love can his life be preserved"
That is what they all said , and the learned men said it was very cleverly and beautifully spoken.
`` That is a beautiful thought !"
stork-papa said immediately.
`` I do n't quite understand it ,"
stork-mamma replied : `` and that 's not my fault , but the fault of the thought.
But let it be as it will , I 've something else to think of"
And now the learned men had spoken of love to this one and that one , and of the difference between the love of one 's neighbor and love between parents and children , of the love of plants for the light , when the sunbeam kisses the ground and the germ springs forth from it , -- everything was so fully and elaborately explained that it was quite impossible for stork-papa to take it in , much less to repeat it.
He felt quite weighed down with thought , and half shut his eyes , and the whole of the following day he stood thoughtfully on one leg : it was quite heavy for him to carry , all that learning.
But one thing stork-papa understood.
All , high and low , had spoken out of their inmost hearts , and said that it was a great misfortune for thousands of people , yes , for the whole country , that this man was lying sick , and could not get well , and that it would spread joy and pleasure abroad if he should recover.
But where grew the flower that could restore him to health ? They had all searched for it , consulted learned books , the twinkling stars , the weather and the wind ; they had made inquiries in every byway of which they could think ; and at length the wise men and the learned men had said , as we have already told , that `` Love begets life -- will restore a father 's life ;"
and on this occasion they had surpassed themselves , and said more than they understood.
They repeated it , and wrote down as a recipe , `` Love begets life"
But how was the thing to be prepared according to the recipe ? that was a point they could not get over.
At last they were decided upon the point that help must come by means of the princess , through her who clave to her father with her whole soul ; and at last a method had been devised whereby help could be procured in this dilemma.
Yes , it was already more than a year ago since the princess had sallied forth by night , when the brief rays of the new moon were waning : she had gone out to the marble sphinx , had shaken the dust from her sandals , and gone onward through the long passage which leads into the midst of one of the great pyramids , where one of the mighty kings of antiquity , surrounded by pomp and treasure , lay swathed in mummy cloths.
There she was to incline her ear to the breast of the dead king ; for thus , said the wise men , it should be made manifest to her where she might find life and health for her father.
She had fulfilled all these injunctions , and had seen in a vision that she was to bring home from the deep lake in the northern moorland -- the very place had been accurately described to her -- the lotos flower which grows in the depths of the waters , and then her father would regain health and strength.
And therefore she had gone forth in the swan 's plumage out of the land of person_6 to the open heath , to the woodland moor.
And the stork-papa and stork-mamma knew all this ; and now we also know it more accurately than we knew it before.
We know that the marsh king had drawn her down to himself , and know that to her loved ones at home she is dead for ever.
One of the wisest of them said , as the stork-mamma said too , `` She will manage to help herself ;"
and at last they quieted their minds with that , and resolved to wait and see what would happen , for they knew of nothing better that they could do.
`` I should like to take away the swan 's feathers from the two faithless princesses ,"
said the stork-papa ; `` then , at any rate , they will not be able to fly up again to the wild moor and do mischief.
I 'll hide the two swan-feather suits up there , till somebody has occasion for them"
`` But where do you intend to hide them ?"
asked stork-mamma.
`` Up in our nest in the moor ,"
answered he.
`` I and our young ones will take turns in carrying them up yonder , on our return , and if that should prove too difficult for us , there are places enough on the way where we can conceal them till our next journey.
Certainly , one suit of swan 's feathers would be enough for the princess , but two are always better.
In those northern countries no one can have too many wraps"
`` No one will thank you for it ,"
quoth stork-mamma ; `` but you 're the master.
Except at breeding-time , I have nothing to say"
In the person_1 's castle by the wild moor , whither the storks bent their flight when the spring approached , they had given the little girl the name of person_0 ; but this name was too soft for a temper like that which was associated with her beauteous form.
Every month this temper showed itself in sharper outlines ; and in the course of years -- during which the storks made the same journey over and over again , in autumn to the person_4 , in spring back to the moorland lake -- the child grew to be a great girl ; and before people were aware of it , she was a beautiful maiden in her sixteenth year.
The shell was splendid , but the kernel was harsh and hard ; and she was hard , as indeed were most people in those dark , gloomy times.
It was a pleasure to her to splash about with her white hands in the blood of the horse that had been slain in sacrifice.
In her wild mood she bit off the neck of the black cock the priest was about to offer up ; and to her father she said in perfect seriousness , `` If thy enemy should pull down the roof of thy house , while thou wert sleeping in careless safety ; if I felt it or heard it , I would not wake thee even if I had the power.
I should never do it , for my ears still tingle with the blow that thou gavest me years ago -- thou ! I have never forgotten it"
But the person_1 took her words in jest ; for , like all others , he was bewitched with her beauty , and he knew not how temper and form changed in person_0.
Without a saddle she sat upon a horse , as if she were part of it , while it rushed along in full career ; nor would she spring from the horse when it quarrelled and fought with other horses.
Often she would throw herself , in her clothes , from the high shore into the sea , and swim to meet the person_1 when his boat steered near home ; and she cut the longest lock of her hair , and twisted it into a string for her bow.
`` Self-achieved is well-achieved ,"
she said.
The person_1 's wife was strong of character and of will , according to the custom of the times ; but , compared to her daughter , she appeared as a feeble , timid woman ; for she knew that an evil charm weighed heavily upon the unfortunate child.
It seemed as if , out of mere malice , when her mother stood on the threshold or came out into the yard , person_0 , would often seat herself on the margin of the well , and wave her arms in the air ; then suddenly she would dive into the deep well , when her frog nature enabled her to dive and rise , down and up , until she climbed forth again like a cat , and came back into the hall dripping with water , so that the green leaves strewn upon the ground floated and turned in the streams that flowed from her garments.
-LRB- person_3 : THE TRANSFORMED PRINCESS.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa But there was one thing that imposed a check upon person_0 , and that was the evening twilight.
When that came she was quiet and thoughtful , and would listen to reproof and advice ; and then a secret feeling seemed to draw her towards her mother.
And when the sun sank , and the usual transformation of body and spirit took place in her , she would sit quiet and mournful , shrunk to the shape of the frog , her body indeed much larger than that of the animal whose likeness she took , and for that reason much more hideous to behold ; for she looked like a wretched dwarf with a frog 's head and webbed fingers.
Her eyes then assumed a very melancholy expression.
She had no voice , and could only utter a hollow croaking that sounded like the stifled sob of a dreaming child.
Then the person_1 's wife took her on her lap , and forgot the ugly form as she looked into the mournful eyes , and said , `` I could almost wish that thou wert always my poor dumb frog-child ; for thou art only the more terrible when thy nature is veiled in a form of beauty"
And the person_1 woman wrote Runic characters against sorcery and spells of sickness , and threw them over the wretched child ; but she could not see that they worked any good.
`` One can scarcely believe that she was ever so small that she could lie in the cup of a water-lily ,"
said stork-papa , `` now she 's grown up the image of her person_6ian mother.
Ah , we shall never see that poor lady again ! Probably she did not know how to help herself , as you and the learned men said.
Year after year I have flown to and fro , across and across the great moorland , and she has never once given a sign that she was still alive.
Yes , I may as well tell you , that every year , when I came here a few days before you , to repair the nest and attend to various matters , I spent a whole night in flying to and fro over the lake , as if I had been an owl or a bat , but every time in vain.
The two suits of swan feathers which I and the young ones dragged up here out of the land of the person_4 have consequently not been used : we had trouble enough with them to bring them hither in three journeys ; and now they lie down here in the nest , and if it should happen that a fire broke out , and the wooden house were burned , they would be destroyed"
`` And our good nest would be destroyed too ,"
said stork-mamma ; `` but you think less of that than of your plumage stuff and of your moor-princess.
You 'd best go down into the mud and stay there with her.
You 're a bad father to your own children , as I said already when I hatched our first brood.
I only hope neither we nor our children will get an arrow in our wings through that wild girl.
person_0 does n't know in the least what she does.
I wish she would only remember that we have lived here longer than she , and that we have never forgotten our duty , and have given our toll every year , a feather , an egg , and a young one , as it was right we should do.
Do you think I can now wander about in the courtyard and everywhere , as I was wont in former days , and as I still do in person_6 , where I am almost the playfellow of the people , and that I can press into pot and kettle as I can yonder ? No , I sit up here and am angry at her , the stupid chit ! And I am angry at you too.
You should have just left her lying in the water-lily , and she would have been dead long ago"
`` You are much better than your words ,"
said stork-papa.
`` I know you better than you know yourself"
And with that he gave a hop , and flapped his wings heavily twice , stretched out his legs behind him , and flew away , or rather sailed away , without moving his wings.
He had already gone some distance , when he gave a great _ flap _ ! The sun shone upon his grand plumage , and his head and neck were stretched forth proudly.
There was power in it , and dash ! `` After all , he 's handsomer than any of them ,"
said stork-mamma to herself ; `` but I wo n't tell him so"
Early in that autumn the person_1 came home , laden with booty , and bringing prisoners with him.
Among these was a young person_5 priest , one of those who contemned the gods of the person_2.
Often in those later times there had been a talk , in hall and chamber , of the new faith that was spreading far and wide in the South , and which , by means of Saint Ansgarius , had penetrated as far as Hedeby on the Schlei.
Even person_0 had heard of this belief in One who , from love to men and for their redemption , had sacrificed His life ; but with her all this had , as the saying is , gone in at one ear and come out at the other.
It seemed as if she only understood the meaning of the word `` love ,"
when she crouched in a corner of the chamber in the form of a miserable frog ; but the person_1 's wife had listened to the mighty history that was told throughout the lands , and had felt strangely moved thereby.
On their return from their voyage , the men told of the splendid temples , of their hewn stones , raised for the worship of Him whose worship is love.
Some massive vessels , made with cunning art , of gold , had been brought home among the booty , and each one had a peculiar fragrance ; for they were incense vessels , which had been swung by person_5 priests before the altar.
In the deep cellars of the person_1 's house the young priest had been immured , his hands and feet bound with strips of bark.
The person_1 's wife declared that he was beautiful as Bulder to behold , and his misfortune touched her heart ; but person_0 declared that it would be right to tie ropes to his heels , and fasten him to the tails of wild oxen.
And she exclaimed , `` Then I would let loose the dogs -- hurrah ! over the moor and across the swamp ! That would be a spectacle for the gods ! And yet finer would it be to follow him in his career"
But the person_1 would not suffer him to die such a death : he purposed to sacrifice the priest on the morrow , on the death-stone in the grove , as a despiser and foe of the high gods.
For the first time a man was to be sacrificed here.
person_0 begged , as a boon , that she might sprinkle the image of the god and the assembled multitude with the blood of the priest.
She sharpened her glittering knife , and when one of the great savage dogs , of whom a number were running about near the person_1 's abode , ran by her , she thrust the knife into his side , `` merely to try its sharpness ,"
as she said.
And the person_1 's wife looked mournfully at the wild , evil-disposed girl ; and when night came on and the maiden exchanged beauty of form for gentleness of soul , she spoke in eloquent words to person_0 of the sorrow that was deep in her heart.
The ugly frog , in its monstrous form , stood before her , and fixed its brown eyes upon her face , listening to her words , and seeming to comprehend them with human intelligence.
`` Never , not even to my lord and husband , have I allowed my lips to utter a word concerning the sufferings I have to undergo through thee ,"
said the person_1 's wife ; `` my heart is full of woe concerning thee : more powerful , and greater than I ever fancied it , is the love of a mother ! But love never entered into thy heart -- thy heart that is like the wet , cold moorland plants"
Then the miserable form trembled , and it was as though these words touched an invisible bond between body and soul , and great tears came into the mournful eyes.
`` Thy hard time will come ,"
said the person_1 's wife ; `` and it will be terrible to me too.
It had been better if thou hadst been set out by the high-road , and the night wind had lulled thee to sleep"
And the person_1 's wife wept bitter tears , and went away full of wrath and bitterness of spirit , vanishing behind the curtain of furs that hung loose over the beam and divided the hall.
The wrinkled frog crouched in the corner alone.
A deep silence reigned around ; but at intervals a half-stifled sigh escaped from its breast , from the breast of person_0.
It seemed as though a painful new life were arising in her inmost heart.
She came forward and listened ; and , stepping forward again , grasped with her clumsy hands the heavy pole that was laid across before the door.
Silently and laboriously she pushed back the pole , silently drew back the bolt , and took up the flickering lamp which stood in the antechamber of the hall.
It seemed as if a strong hidden will gave her strength.
She drew back the iron bolt from the closed cellar door , and crept in to the captive.
He was asleep ; and when he awoke and saw the hideous form , he shuddered as though he had beheld a wicked apparition.
She drew her knife , cut the bonds that confined his hands and feet , and beckoned him to follow her.
-LRB- person_3 : THE FLIGHT.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa He uttered some holy names , and made the sign of the cross ; and when the form remained motionless at his side , he said , `` Who art thou ? Whence this animal shape that thou bearest , while yet thou art full of gentle mercy ?"
The frog-woman beckoned him to follow , and led him through corridors shrouded with curtains , into the stables , and there pointed to a horse.
He mounted on its back ; but she also sprang up before him , holding fast by the horse 's mane.
The prisoner understood her meaning , and in a rapid trot they rode on a way which he would never have found , out on to the open heath.
He thought not of her hideous form , but felt how the mercy and loving-kindness of the Almighty were working by means of this monstrous apparition ; he prayed pious prayers , and sang songs of praise.
Then she trembled.
Was it the power of song and of prayer that worked in her , or was she shuddering at the cold morning twilight that was approaching ? What were her feelings ? She raised herself up , and wanted to stop the horse and to alight ; but the person_5 priest held her back with all his strength , and sang a pious song , as if that would have the power to loosen the charm that turned her into the hideous semblance of a frog.
And the horse gallopped on more wildly than ever ; the sky turned red , the first sunbeam pierced through the clouds , and as the flood of light came streaming down , the frog changed its nature.
person_0 was again the beautiful maiden with the wicked , demoniac spirit.
He held a beautiful maiden in his arms , but was horrified at the sight : he swung himself from the horse , and compelled it to stand.
This seemed to him a new and terrible sorcery ; but person_0 likewise leaped from the saddle , and stood on the ground.
The child 's short garment reached only to her knee.
She plucked the sharp knife from her girdle , and quick as lightning she rushed in upon the astonished priest.
`` Let me get at thee !"
she screamed ; `` let me get at thee , and plunge this knife in thy body ! Thou art pale as straw , thou beardless slave !"
She pressed in upon him.
They struggled together in a hard strife , but an invisible power seemed given to the person_5 captive.
He held her fast ; and the old oak tree beneath which they stood came to his assistance ; for its roots , which projected over the ground , held fast the maiden 's feet that had become entangled in it.
Quite close to them gushed a spring ; and he sprinkled person_0 's face and neck with the fresh water , and commanded the unclean spirit to come forth , and blessed her in the person_5 fashion ; but the water of faith has no power when the well-spring of faith flows not from within.
And yet the person_5 showed his power even now , and opposed more than the mere might of a man against the evil that struggled within the girl.
His holy action seemed to overpower her : she dropped her hands , and gazed with frightened eyes and pale cheeks upon him who appeared to her a mighty magician learned in secret arts ; he seemed to her to speak in a dark Runic tongue , and to be making cabalistic signs in the air.
She would not have winked had he swung a sharp knife or a glittering axe against her ; but she trembled when he signed her with the sign of the cross on her brow and her bosom , and she sat there like a tame bird with bowed head.
-LRB- person_3 : THE CHRISTIAN PRIEST 'S SPELL.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Then he spoke to her in gentle words of the kindly deed she had done for him in the past night , when she came to him in the form of the hideous frog , to loosen his bonds , and to lead him out to life and light ; and he told her that she too was bound in closer bonds than those that had confined him , and that she should be released by his means.
He would take her to Hedeby -LRB- Schleswig -RRB- , to the holy Ansgarius , and yonder in the person_5 city the spell that bound her would be loosed.
But he would not let her sit before him on the horse , though of her own accord she offered to do so.
`` Thou must sit behind me , not before me ,"
he said.
`` Thy magic beauty hath a power that comes of evil , and I fear it ; and yet I feel that the victory is sure to him who hath faith"
And he knelt down and prayed fervently.
It seemed as though the woodland scenes were consecrated as a holy church by his prayer.
The birds sang as though they belonged to the new congregation , the wild flowers smelt sweet as incense ; and while he spoke the horse that had carried them both in headlong career stood still before the tall bramble bushes , and plucked at them , so that the ripe juicy berries fell down upon person_0 's hands , offering themselves for her refreshment.
Patiently she suffered the priest to lift her on the horse , and sat like a somnambulist , neither completely asleep nor wholly awake.
The person_5 bound two branches together with bark , in the form of a cross , which he held up high as they rode through the forest.
The wood became thicker as they went on , and at last became a trackless wilderness.
The wild sloe grew across the way , so that they had to ride round the bushes.
The bubbling spring became not a stream but a standing marsh , round which likewise they were obliged to lead the horse.
There was strength and refreshment in the cool forest breeze ; and no small power lay in the gentle words , which were spoken in faith and in person_5 love , from a strong inward yearning to lead the poor lost one into the way of light and life.
They say the rain-drops can hollow the hard stone , and the waves of the sea can smooth and round the sharp edges of the rocks.
Thus did the dew of mercy , that dropped upon person_0 , smooth what was rough , and penetrate what was hard in her.
The effects did not yet appear , nor was she aware of them herself ; but doth the seed in the bosom of earth know , when the refreshing dew and the quickening sunbeams fall upon it , that it hath within itself the power of growth and blossoming ? As the song of the mother penetrates into the heart of the child , and it babbles the words after her , without understanding their import , until they afterwards engender thought , and come forward in due time clearer and more clearly , so here also did the Word work , that is powerful to create.
They rode forth from the dense forest , across the heath , and then again through pathless roads ; and towards evening they encountered a band of robbers.
-LRB- person_3 : HELGA AND THE PRIEST ATTACKED BY ROBBERS.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Where hast thou stolen that beauteous maiden ?"
cried the robbers ; and they seized the horse 's bridle , and dragged the two riders from its back.
The priest had no weapon save the knife he had taken from person_0 ; and with this he tried to defend himself.
One of the robbers lifted his axe to slay him , but the young priest sprang aside and eluded the blow , which struck deep into the horse 's neck , so that the blood spurted forth , and the creature sank down on the ground.
Then person_0 seemed suddenly to wake from her long reverie , and threw herself hastily upon the gasping animal.
The priest stood before her to protect and defend her , but one of the robbers swung his iron hammer over the person_5 's head , and brought it down with such a crash that blood and brains were scattered around , and the priest sank to the earth , dead.
Then the robber 's seized beautiful person_0 by her white arms and her slender waist ; but the sun went down , and its last ray disappeared at that moment , and she was changed into the form of a frog.
A white-green mouth spread over half her face , her arms became thin and slimy , and broad hands with webbed fingers spread out upon them like fans.
Then the robbers were seized with terror , and let her go.
She stood , a hideous monster , among them ; and as it is the nature of the frog to do , she hopped up high , and disappeared in the thicket.
Then the robbers saw that this must be a bad prank of the spirit Loke , or the evil power of magic , and in great affright they hurried away from the spot.
The full moon was already rising.
Presently it shone with splendid radiance over the earth , and poor person_0 crept forth from the thicket in the wretched frog 's shape.
She stood still beside the corpse of the priest and the carcase of the slain horse.
She looked at them with eyes that appeared to weep , and from the frog-mouth came forth a croaking like the voice of a child bursting into tears.
She leaned first over the one , then over the other , brought water in her hollow hand , which had become larger and more capacious by the webbed skin , and poured it over them ; but dead they were , and dead they would remain , she at last understood.
Soon wild beasts would come and tear their dead bodies ; but no , that must not be ! so she dug up the earth as well as she could , in the endeavor to prepare a grave for them.
She had nothing to work with but a stake and her two hands encumbered with the webbed skin that grew between the fingers , and which were torn by the labor , so that the blood flowed over them.
At last she saw that her endeavors would not succeed.
Then she brought water and washed the dead man 's face , and covered it with fresh green leaves ; she brought green boughs and laid them upon him , scattering dead leaves in the spaces between.
Then she brought the heaviest stones she could carry and laid them over the dead body , stopping up the interstices with moss.
And now she thought the grave-hill would be strong and secure.
The night had passed away in this difficult work -- the sun broke through the clouds , and beautiful person_0 stood there in all her loveliness , with bleeding hands , and with the first tears flowing that had ever bedewed her maiden cheeks.
-LRB- person_3 : HELGA IN THE TREE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Then in this transformation it seemed as if two natures were striving within her.
Her whole frame trembled , and she looked around , as if she had just awoke from a troubled dream.
Then she ran towards the slender tree , clung to it for support , and in another moment she had climbed to the summit of the tree , and held fast.
There she sat like a startled squirrel , and remained the whole day long in the silent solitude of the wood , where everything is quiet , and , as they say , dead.
Butterflies fluttered around in sport , and in the neighborhood were several ant-hills , each with its hundreds of busy little occupants moving briskly to and fro.
In the air danced a number of gnats , swarm upon swarm , and hosts of buzzing flies , lady-birds , gold beetles , and other little winged creatures ; the worm crept forth from the damp ground , the moles came out ; but except these all was silent around -- silent , and , as people say , dead -- for they speak of things as they understand them.
No one noticed person_0 , but some flocks of crows , that flew screaming about the top of the tree on which she sat : the birds hopped close up to her on the twigs with pert curiosity ; but when the glance of her eye fell upon them , it was a signal for their flight.
But they could not understand her -- nor , indeed , could she understand herself.
When the evening twilight came on , and the sun was sinking , the time of her transformation roused her to fresh activity.
She glided down from the tree , and as the last sunbeam vanished she stood in the wrinkled form of the frog , with the torn webbed skin on her hands ; but her eyes now gleamed with a splendor of beauty that had scarcely been theirs when she wore her garb of loveliness , for they were a pair of pure , pious , maidenly eyes that shone out of the frog-face.
They bore witness of depth of feeling , of the gentle human heart ; and the beauteous eyes overflowed in tears , weeping precious drops that lightened the heart.
On the sepulchral mound she had raised there yet lay the cross of boughs , the last work of him who slept beneath.
person_0 lifted up the cross , in pursuance of a sudden thought that came upon her.
She planted it upon the burial mound , over the priest and the dead horse.
The sorrowful remembrance of him called fresh tears into her eyes ; and in this tender frame of mind she marked the same sign in the sand around the grave ; and as she wrote the sign with both her hands , the webbed skin fell from them like a torn glove ; and when she washed her hands in the woodland spring , and gazed in wonder at their snowy whiteness , she again made the holy sign in the air between herself and the dead man ; then her lips trembled , the holy name that had been preached to her during the ride from the forest came to her mouth , and she pronounced it audibly.
Then the frog-skin fell from her , and she was once more the beauteous maiden.
But her head sank wearily , her tired limbs required rest , and she fell into a deep slumber.
Her sleep , however , was short.
Towards midnight she awoke.
Before her stood the dead horse , beaming and full of life , which gleamed forth from his eyes and from his wounded neck ; close beside the creature stood the murdered person_5 priest , `` more beautiful than Bulder ,"
the person_1 woman would have said ; and yet he seemed to stand in a flame of fire.
Such gravity , such an air of justice , such a piercing look shone out of his great mild eyes , that their glance seemed to penetrate every corner of her heart.
Beautiful person_0 trembled at the look , and her remembrance awoke as though she stood before the tribunal of judgment.
-LRB- person_3 : HELGA IS TAKEN BACK TO THE MARSH.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Every good deed that had been done for her , every loving word that had been spoken , seemed endowed with life : she understood that it had been love that kept her here during the days of trial , during which the creature formed of dust and spirit , soul and earth , combats and struggles ; she acknowledged that she had only followed the leading of temper , and had done nothing for herself ; everything had been given her , everything had happened as it were by the interposition of Providence.
She bowed herself humbly , confessing her own deep imperfection in the presence of the Power that can read every thought of the heart -- and then the priest spoke.
`` Thou daughter of the moorland ,"
he said , `` out of the earth , out of the moor , thou camest ; but from the earth thou shalt arise.
I come from the land of the dead.
Thou , too , shalt pass through the deep valleys into the beaming mountain region , where dwell mercy and completeness.
I can not lead thee to Hedeby , that thou mayest receive person_5 baptism ; for , first , thou must burst the veil of waters over the deep moorland , and draw forth the living source of thy being and of thy birth ; thou must exercise thy faculties in deeds before the consecration can be given thee"
And he lifted her upon the horse , and gave her a golden censer similar to the one she had seen in the person_1 's castle.
The open wound in the forehead of the slain person_5 shone like a diadem.
He took the cross from the grave and held it aloft.
And now they rode through the air , over the rustling wood , over the hills where the old heroes lay buried , each on his dead war-horse ; and the iron figures rose up and gallopped forth , and stationed themselves on the summits of the hills.
The golden hoop on the forehead of each gleamed in the moonlight , and their mantles floated in the night breeze.
The dragon that guards buried treasures likewise lifted up his head and gazed after the riders.
The gnomes and wood-spirits peeped forth from beneath the hills and from between the furrows of the fields , and flitted to and fro with red , blue , and green torches , like the sparks in the ashes of a burnt paper.
Over woodland and heath , over river and marsh they fled away , up to the wild moor ; and over this they hovered in wide circles.
The person_5 priest held the cross aloft ; it gleamed like gold ; and from his lips dropped pious prayers.
Beautiful person_0 joined in the hymns he sang , like a child joining in its mother 's song.
She swung the censer , and a wondrous fragrance of incense streamed forth thence , so that the reeds and grass of the moor burst forth into blossom.
Every germ came forth from the deep ground.
All that had life lifted itself up.
A veil of water-lilies spread itself forth like a carpet of wrought flowers , and upon this carpet lay a sleeping woman , young and beautiful.
person_0 thought it was her own likeness she saw upon the mirror of the calm waters.
But it was her mother whom she beheld , the moor king 's wife , the princess from the banks of the person_4.
The dead priest commanded that the slumbering woman should be lifted upon the horse ; but the horse sank under the burden , as though its body had been a cloth fluttering in the wind.
But the holy sign gave strength to the airy phantom , and then the three rode from the moor to the firm land.
-LRB- person_3 : HELGA MEETS WITH HER MOTHER IN THE MARSH.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Then the cock crowed in the person_1 's castle , and the phantom shapes dissolved and floated away in air ; but mother and daughter stood opposite each other.
`` Am I really looking at my own image from beneath the deep waters ?"
asked the mother.
`` Is it myself that I see reflected on the clear mirror ?"
exclaimed the daughter.
And they approached one another , and embraced.
The heart of the mother beat quickest , and she understood the quickening pulses.
`` My child ! thou flower of my own heart ! my lotos-flower of the deep waters !"
And she embraced her child anew , and wept ; and the tears were as a new baptism of life and love to person_0.
`` In the swan 's plumage came I hither ,"
said the mother ; `` and here also I threw off my dress of feathers.
I sank through the shaking moorland , far down into the black slime , which closed like a wall around me.
But soon I felt a fresher stream ; a power drew me down , deeper and ever deeper.
I felt the weight of sleep upon my eyelids ; I slumbered , and dreams hovered round me.
It seemed to me that I was again in the pyramid in person_6 , and yet the waving willow trunk that had frightened me up in the moor was ever before me.
I looked at the clefts and wrinkles in the stem , and they shone forth in colors , and took the form of hieroglyphics : it was the case of the mummy at which I was gazing ; at last the case burst , and forth stepped the thousand-year-old king , the mummied form , black as pitch , shining black as the wood-snail or the fat mud of the swamp ; whether it was the marsh king or the mummy of the pyramids I knew not.
He seized me in his arms , and I felt as if I must die.
When I returned to consciousness a little bird was sitting on my bosom , beating with its wings , and twittering and singing.
The bird flew away from me up towards the heavy , dark covering ; but a long green band still fastened him to me.
I heard and understood his longing tones : ` Freedom ! Sunlight ! to my father ! ' Then I thought of my father and the sunny land of my birth , my life , and my love ; and I loosened the band and let the bird soar away home to the father.
Since that hour I have dreamed no more.
I have slept a sleep , a long and heavy sleep , till within this hour ; harmony and incense awoke me and set me free"
The green band from the heart of the mother to the bird 's wings , where did it flutter now ? whither had it been wafted ? Only the stork had seen it.
The band was the green stalk , the bow at the end , the beauteous flower , the cradle of the child that had now bloomed into beauty , and was once more resting on its mother 's heart.
And while the two were locked in each other 's embrace , the old stork flew around them in smaller and smaller circles , and at length shot away in swift flight towards his nest , whence he brought out the swan-feather suits he had preserved there for years , throwing one to each of them , and the feathers closed around them , so that they soared up from the earth in the semblance of two white swans.
`` And now we will speak with one another ,"
quoth stork-papa , `` now we understand each other , though the beak of one bird is differently shaped from that of another.
It happens more than fortunately that you came to-night.
To-morrow we should have been gone -- mother , myself , and the young ones ; for we 're flying southward.
Yes , only look at me ! I am an old friend from the land of the person_4 , and mother has a heart larger than her beak.
She always declared the princess would find a way to help herself ; and I and the young ones carried the swan 's feathers up here.
But how glad I am ! and how fortunate that I 'm here still ! At dawn of day we shall move hence , a great company of storks.
We 'll fly first , and do you follow us ; thus you can not miss your way ; moreover , I and the youngsters will keep a sharp eye upon you"
`` And the lotos-flower which I was to bring with me ,"
said the person_6ian princess , `` she is flying by my side in the swan 's plumage ! I bring with me the flower of my heart ; and thus the riddle has been read.
Homeward ! homeward !"
But person_0 declared she could not quit the Danish land before she had once more seen her foster-mother , the affectionate person_1 woman.
Every beautiful recollection , every kind word , every tear that her foster-mother had wept for her , rose up in her memory , and in that moment she almost felt as if she loved the person_1 woman best of all.
`` Yes , we must go to the person_1 's castle ,"
said stork-papa ; `` mother and the youngsters are waiting for us there.
How they will turn up their eyes and flap their wings ! Yes , you see mother does n't speak much -- she 's short and dry , but she means all the better.
I 'll begin clapping at once , that they may know we 're coming"
And stork-papa clapped in first-rate style , and they all flew away towards the person_1 's castle.
In the castle every one was sunk in deep sleep.
The person_1 's wife had not retired to rest until it was late.
She was anxious about person_0 , who had vanished with a person_5 priest three days before : she knew person_0 must have assisted him in his flight , for it was the girl 's horse that had been missed from the stables ; but how all this had been effected was a mystery to her.
The person_1 woman had heard of the miracles told of the person_5 priest , and which were said to be wrought by him and by those who believed in his words and followed him.
Her passing thoughts formed themselves into a dream , and it seemed to her that she was still lying awake on her couch , and that deep darkness reigned without.
The storm drew near : she heard the sea roaring and rolling to the east and to the west , like the waves of the person_2 Sea and the Cattegat.
The immense snake which was believed to surround the span of the earth in the depths of the ocean was trembling in convulsions ; she dreamed that the night of the fall of the gods had come -- Ragnarok , as the heathen called the last day , when everything was to pass away , even the great gods themselves.
The war-trumpet sounded , and the gods rode over the rainbow , clad in steel , to fight the last battle.
The winged Valkyrs rode before them , and the dead warriors closed the train.
The whole firmament was ablaze with northern lights , and yet the darkness seemed to predominate.
It was a terrible hour.
And close by the terrified person_1 woman person_0 seemed to be crouching on the floor in the hideous frog form , trembling and pressing close to her foster-mother , who took her on her lap and embraced her affectionately , hideous though she was.
The air resounded with the blows of clubs and swords , and with the hissing of arrows , as if a hailstorm were passing across it.
The hour was come when earth and sky were to burst , the stars to fall , and all things to be swallowed up in Surtur 's sea of fire ; but she knew that there would be a new heaven and a new earth , that the corn fields then would wave where now the ocean rolled over the desolate tracts of sand , and that the unutterable God would reign ; and up to Him rose Bulder the gentle , the affectionate , delivered from the kingdom of the dead ; he came ; the person_1 woman saw him , and recognized his countenance ; it was that of the captive person_5 priest.
`` White person_5 !"
she cried aloud , and with these words she pressed a kiss upon the forehead of the hideous frog-child.
Then the frog-skin fell off , and person_0 stood revealed in all her beauty , lovely and gentle as she had never appeared , and with beaming eyes.
She kissed her foster-mother 's hands , blessed her for all the care and affection lavished during the days of bitterness and trial , for the thought she had awakened and cherished in her , for naming the name , which she repeated , `` White person_5 ;"
and beauteous person_0 arose in the form of a mighty swan , and spread her white wings with a rushing like the sound of a troop of birds of passage winging their way through the air.
The person_1 woman woke ; and she heard the same noise without still continuing.
She knew it was the time for the storks to depart , and that it must be those birds whose wings she heard.
She wished to see them once more , and to bid them farewell as they set forth on their journey.
Therefore she rose from her couch and stepped out upon the threshold , and on the top of the gable she saw stork ranged behind stork , and around the castle , over the high trees , flew bands of storks wheeling in wide circles ; but opposite the threshold where she stood , by the well where person_0 had often sat and alarmed her with her wildness , sat two white swans gazing at her with intelligent eyes.
And she remembered her dream , which still filled her soul as if it were reality.
She thought of person_0 in the shape of a swan , and of the person_5 priest ; and suddenly she felt her heart rejoice within her.
-LRB- person_3 : THE DISGUISED PRINCESSES BID FAREWELL TO THE VIKING WOMAN.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa The swans flapped their wings and arched their necks , as if they would send her a greeting , and the person_1 's wife spread out her arms towards them , as if she felt all this ; and smiled through her tears , and then stood sunk in deep thought.
Then all the storks arose , flapping their wings and clapping with their beaks , to start on their voyage towards the South.
`` We will not wait for the swans ,"
said stork-mamma : `` if they want to go with us they had better come.
We ca n't sit here till the plovers start.
It is a fine thing , after all , to travel in this way , in families , not like the finches and partridges , where the male and female birds fly in separate bodies , which appears to me a very unbecoming thing.
What are yonder swans flapping their wings for ?"
`` Well , everyone flies in his own fashion ,"
said stork-papa : `` the swans in an oblique line , the cranes in a triangle , and the plovers in a snake 's line"
`` Do n't talk about snakes while we are flying up here ,"
said stork-mamma.
`` It only puts ideas into the children 's heads which ca n't be gratified"
`` Are those the high mountains of which I heard tell ?"
asked person_0 , in the swan 's plumage.
`` They are storm clouds driving on beneath us ,"
replied her mother.
`` What are yonder white clouds that rise so high ?"
asked person_0 again.
`` Those are the mountains covered with perpetual snow which you see yonder ,"
replied her mother.
And they flew across the lofty Alps towards the blue Mediterranean.
`` Africa 's land ! person_6 's strand !"
sang , rejoicingly , in her swan 's plumage , the daughter of the person_4 , as from the lofty air she saw her native land looming in the form of a yellowish wavy stripe of shore.
And all the birds caught sight of it , and hastened their flight.
`` I can scent the person_4 mud and wet frogs ,"
said stork-mamma ; `` I begin to feel quite hungry.
Yes ; now you shall taste something nice ; and you will see the maraboo bird , the crane , and the ibis.
They all belong to our family , though they are not nearly so beautiful as we.
They give themselves great airs , especially the ibis.
He has been quite spoilt by the person_6ians , for they make a mummy of him and stuff him with spices.
I would rather be stuffed with live frogs , and so would you , and so you shall.
Better have something in one 's inside while one is alive than to be made a fuss with after one is dead.
That 's my opinion , and I am always right"
`` Now the storks are come ,"
said the people in the rich house on the banks of the person_4 , where the royal lord lay in the open hall on the downy cushions , covered with a leopard skin , not alive and yet not dead , but waiting and hoping for the lotos-flower from the deep moorland , in the far person_2.
Friends and servants stood around his couch.
-LRB- person_3 : THE KING OF EGYPT 'S RECOVERY.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa And into the hall flew two beauteous swans.
They had come with the storks.
They threw off their dazzling white plumage , and two lovely female forms were revealed , as like each other as two dewdrops.
They bent over the old , pale , sick man , they put back their long hair , and while person_0 bent over her grandfather , his white cheeks reddened , his eyes brightened , and life came back to his wasted limbs.
The old man rose up cheerful and well ; and daughter and granddaughter embraced him joyfully , as if they were giving him a morning greeting after a long heavy dream.
And joy reigned through the whole house , and likewise in the stork 's nest , though there the chief cause was certainly the good food , especially the numberless frogs , which seemed to spring up in heaps out of the ground ; and while the learned men wrote down hastily , in flying characters , a sketch of the history of the two princesses , and of the flower of health that had been a source of joy for the home and the land , the stork pair told the story to their family in their own fashion , but not till all had eaten their fill , otherwise the youngsters would have found something more interesting to do than to listen to stories.
`` Now , at last , you will become something ,"
whispered stork-mamma , `` there 's no doubt about that"
`` What should I become ?"
asked stork-papa.
`` What have I done ? Nothing at all !"
`` You have done more than the rest ! But for you and the youngsters the two princesses would never have seen person_6 again , or have effected the old man 's cure.
You will turn out something ! They must certainly give you a doctor 's degree , and our youngsters will inherit it , and so will their children after them , and so on.
You already look like an person_6ian doctor ; at least in my eyes"
`` I can not quite repeat the words as they were spoken ,"
said stork-papa , who had listened from the roof to the report of these events , made by the learned men , and was now telling it again to his own family.
`` What they said was so confused , it was so wise and learned , that they immediately received rank and presents -- even the head cook received an especial mark of distinction -- probably for the soup"
`` And what did you receive ?"
asked stork-mamma.
`` Surely they ought not to forget the most important person of all , and you are certainly he ! The learned men have done nothing throughout the whole affair but used their tongues ; but you will doubtless receive what is due to you"
Late in the night , when the gentle peace of sleep rested upon the now happy house , there was one who still watched.
It was not stork-papa , though he stood upon one leg , and slept on guard -- it was person_0 who watched.
She bowed herself forward over the balcony , and looked into the clear air , gazed at the great gleaming stars , greater and purer in their lustre than she had ever seen them in the person_2 , and yet the same orbs.
She thought of the person_1 woman in the wild moorland , of the gentle eyes of her foster-mother , and of the tears which the kind soul had wept over the poor frog-child that now lived in splendor under the gleaming stars , in the beauteous spring air on the banks of the person_4.
She thought of the love that dwelt in the breast of the heathen woman , the love that had been shown to a wretched creature , hateful in human form , and hideous in its transformation.
She looked at the gleaming stars , and thought of the glory that had shone upon the forehead of the dead man , when she flew with him through the forest and across the moorland ; sounds passed through her memory , words she had heard pronounced as they rode onward , and when she was borne wondering and trembling through the air , words from the great Fountain of love that embraces all human kind.
Yes , great things had been achieved and won ! Day and night beautiful person_0 was absorbed in the contemplation of the great sum of her happiness , and stood in the contemplation of it like a child that turns hurriedly from the giver to gaze on the splendors of the gifts it has received.
She seemed to lose herself in the increasing happiness , in contemplation of what might come , of what would come.
Had she not been borne by miracle to greater and greater bliss ? And in this idea she one day lost herself so completely , that she thought no more of the Giver.
It was the exuberance of youthful courage , unfolding its wings for a bold flight ! Her eyes were gleaming with courage , when suddenly a loud noise in the courtyard below recalled her thoughts from their wandering flight.
There she saw two great ostriches running round rapidly in a narrow circle.
Never before had she seen such creatures -- great clumsy things they were , with wings that looked as if they had been clipped , and the birds themselves looking as if they had suffered violence of some kind ; and now for the first time she heard the legend which the person_6ians tell of the ostrich.
Once , they say , the ostriches were a beautiful , glorious race of birds , with strong large wings ; and one evening the larger birds of the forest said to the ostrich , `` Brother , shall we fly to-morrow , _ God willing _ , to the river to drink ?"
And the ostrich answered , `` I will"
At daybreak , accordingly , they winged their flight from thence , flying first up on high , towards the sun , that gleamed like the eye of God -- higher and higher , the ostrich far in advance of all the other birds.
Proudly the ostrich flew straight towards the light , boasting of his strength , and not thinking of the Giver or saying , `` God willing !"
Then suddenly the avenging angel drew aside the veil from the flaming ocean of sunlight , and in a moment the wings of the proud bird were scorched and shrivelled up , and he sank miserably to the ground.
Since that time , the ostrich has never again been able to raise himself in the air , but flees timidly along the ground , and runs round in a narrow circle.
And this is a warning for us men , that in all our thoughts and schemes , in all our doings and devices , we should say , `` God willing"
And person_0 bowed her head thoughtfully and gravely , and looked at the circling ostrich , noticing its timid fear , and its stupid pleasure at sight of its own great shadow cast upon the white sunlit wall.
And seriousness struck its roots deep into her mind and heart.
A rich life in present and future happiness was given and won ; and what was yet to come ? the best of all ,"
_ God willing _"
In early spring , when the storks flew again towards the person_2 , beautiful person_0 took off her golden bracelet , and scratched her name upon it ; and beckoning to the stork-father , she placed the golden hoop around his neck , and begged him to deliver it to the person_1 woman , so that the latter might see that her adopted daughter was well , and had not forgotten her.
`` That 's heavy to carry ,"
thought the stork-papa , when he had the golden ring round his neck ; `` but gold and honor are not to be flung into the street.
The stork brings good fortune ; they 'll be obliged to acknowledge that over yonder"
`` You lay gold and I lay eggs ,"
said the stork-mamma.
`` But with you it 's only once in a way , whereas I lay eggs every year ; but neither of us is appreciated -- that 's very disheartening"
`` Still one has one 's inward consciousness , mother ,"
replied stork-papa.
`` But you ca n't hang that round your neck ,"
stork-mamma retorted ; `` and it wo n't give you a good wind or a good meal"
The little nightingale , singing yonder in the tamarind tree , will soon be going north too.
person_0 the fair had often heard the sweet bird sing up yonder by the wild moor ; now she wanted to give it a message to carry , for she had learned the language of birds when she flew in the swan 's plumage ; she had often conversed with stork and with swallow , and she knew the nightingale would understand her.
So she begged the little bird to fly to the beech wood , on the peninsula of Jutland , where the grave-hill had been reared with stones and branches , and begged the nightingale to persuade all other little birds that they might build their nests around the place , so that the song of birds should resound over that sepulchre for evermore.
And the nightingale flew away -- and time flew away.
-LRB- person_3 : A MESSAGE TO THE VIKING WOMAN.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa In autumn the eagle stood upon the pyramid and saw a stately train of richly laden camels approaching , and richly attired armed men on foaming Arab steeds , shining white as silver , with pink trembling nostrils , and great thick manes hanging down almost over their slender legs.
Wealthy guests , a royal prince of Arabia , handsome as a prince should be , came into the proud mansion on whose roof the stork 's nests now stood empty : those who had inhabited the nest were away now , in the far north ; but they would soon return.
And , indeed , they returned on that very day that was so rich in joy and gladness.
Here a marriage was celebrated , and fair person_0 was the bride , shining in jewels and silk.
The bridegroom was the young Arab prince , and bride and bridegroom sat together at the upper end of the table , between mother and grandfather.
But her gaze was not fixed upon the bridegroom , with his manly sun-browned cheeks , round which a black beard curled ; she gazed not at his dark fiery eyes that were fixed upon her -- but far away at a gleaming star that shone down from the sky.
Then strong wings were heard beating the air.
The storks were coming home , and however tired the old stork pair might be from the journey , and however much they needed repose , they did not fail to come down at once to the balustrades of the verandah ; for they knew what feast was being celebrated.
Already on the frontier of the land they had heard that person_0 had caused their figures to be painted on the wall -- for did they not belong to her history ? `` That 's very pretty and suggestive ,"
said stork-papa.
`` But it 's very little ,"
observed stork-mamma.
`` They could not possibly have done less"
And when person_0 saw them , she rose and came on to the verandah , to stroke the backs of the storks.
The old pair waved their heads and bowed their necks , and even the youngest among the young ones felt highly honored by the reception.
And person_0 looked up to the gleaming star , which seemed to glow purer and purer ; and between the star and herself there floated a form , purer than the air , and visible through it : it floated quite close to her.
It was the spirit of the dead person_5 priest ; he too was coming to her wedding feast -- coming from heaven.
`` The glory and brightness yonder outshines everything that is known on earth !"
he said.
And fair person_0 begged so fervently , so beseechingly , as she had never yet prayed , that it might be permitted her to gaze in there for one single moment , that she might be allowed to cast but a single glance into the brightness that beamed in the kingdom.
Then he bore her up amid splendor and glory.
Not only around her , but within her , sounded voices and beamed a brightness that words can not express.
`` Now we must go back ; thou wilt be missed ,"
he said.
`` Only one more look !"
she begged.
`` But one short minute more !"
`` We must go back to the earth.
The guests will all depart"
`` Only one more look -- the last"
And person_0 stood again in the verandah ; but the marriage lights without had vanished , and the lamps in the hall were extinguished , and the storks were gone -- nowhere a guest to be seen -- no bridegroom -- all seemed to have been swept away in those few short minutes ! Then a great dread came upon her.
Alone she went through the empty great hall into the next chamber.
Strange warriors slept yonder.
She opened a side door which led into her own chamber ; and , as she thought to step in there , she suddenly found herself in the garden ; but yet it had not looked thus here before -- the sky gleamed red -- the morning dawn was come.
Three minutes only in heaven and a whole night on earth had passed away ! Then she saw the storks again.
She called to them , spoke their language ; and stork-papa turned his head towards her , listened to her words , and drew near.
`` You speak our language ,"
he said ; `` what do you wish ? Why do you appear here -- you , a strange woman ?"
`` It is I -- it is person_0 -- dost thou not know me ? Three minutes ago we were speaking together yonder in the verandah !"
`` That 's a mistake ,"
said the stork ; `` you must have dreamt all that !"
`` No , no !"
she persisted.
And she reminded him of the person_1 's castle , and of the great ocean , and of the journey hither.
Then stork-papa winked with his eyes , and said : `` Why , that 's an old story , which I heard from the time of my great-grandfather.
There certainly was here in person_6 a princess of that kind from the Danish land , but she vanished on the evening of her wedding-day , many hundred years ago , and never came back ! You may read about it yourself yonder on the monument in the garden ; there you 'll find swans and storks sculptured , and at the top you are yourself in white marble !"
And thus it was.
person_0 saw it , and understood it , and sank on her knees.
The sun burst forth in glory ; and as , in time of yore , the frog-shape had vanished in its beams , and the beautiful form had stood displayed , so now in the light a beauteous form , clearer , purer than air -- a beam of brightness -- flew up into heaven ! The body crumbled to dust ; and a faded lotos-flower lay on the spot where person_0 had stood.
`` Well , that 's a new ending to the story ,"
said stork-papa.
`` I had certainly not expected it.
But I like it very well"
`` But what will the young ones say to it ?"
said stork-mamma.
`` Yes , certainly , that 's the important point ,"
replied he"
This is a story from the sand-dunes or sand-hills of person_2 ; though it does not begin in person_2 , the northern peninsula , but far away in the south , in person_3.
The ocean is the high road between the nations -- transport thyself thither in thought to sunny person_3.
There it is warm and beautiful , there the fiery pomegranate blossoms flourish among the dark laurels ; from the mountains a cool refreshing wind blows down , upon , and over the orange gardens , over the gorgeous Moorish halls with their golden cupolas and colored walls : through the streets go children in procession , with candles and with waving flags , and over them , lofty and clear , rises the sky with its gleaming stars.
There is a sound of song and of castagnettes , and youths and maidens join in the dance under the blooming acacias , while the mendicant sits upon the hewn marble stone , refreshing himself with the juicy melon , and dreamily enjoying life.
The whole is like a glorious dream.
And there was a newly married couple who completely gave themselves up to its charm ; moreover , they possessed the good things of this life , health and cheerfulness of soul , riches and honor.
`` We are as happy as it is possible to be ,"
exclaimed the young couple , from the depths of their hearts They had indeed but one step more to mount in the ladder of happiness , in the hope that person_12 would give them a child ; a son like them in form and in spirit.
The happy child would be welcomed with rejoicing , would be tended with all care and love , and enjoy every advantage that wealth and ease possessed by an influential family could give.
And the days went by like a glad festival.
`` Life is a gracious gift of Providence , an almost inappreciable gift !"
said the young wife , `` and yet they tell us that fulness of joy is found only in the future life , for ever and ever.
I can not compass the thought"
`` And perhaps the thought arises from the arrogance of men ,"
said the husband.
`` It seems a great pride to believe that we shall live for ever , that we shall be as gods.
Were these not the words of the serpent , the origin of falsehood ?"
`` Surely you do not doubt the future life ?"
exclaimed the young wife ; and it seemed as if one of the first shadows flitted over the sunny heaven of her thoughts.
`` Faith promises it , and the priests tells us so !"
replied the man ; `` but amid all my happiness , I feel that it is arrogance to demand a continued happiness , another life after this.
Has not so much been given us in this state of existence , that we ought to be , that we _ must _ be , contented with it ?"
`` Yes , it has been given to _ us _ ,"
said the young wife , `` but to how many thousands is not this life one scene of hard trial ? How many have been thrown into this world , as if only to suffer poverty and shame and sickness and misfortune ? If there were no life after this , everything on earth would be too unequally distributed , and the Almighty would not be justice itself"
`` Yonder beggar ,"
replied the man , `` has his joys which seem to him great , and which rejoice him as much as the king is rejoiced in the splendor of his palace.
And then , do you not think that the beast of burden , which suffers blows and hunger , and works itself to death , suffers from its heavy fate ? The dumb beast might likewise demand a future life , and declare the decree unjust that does not admit it into a higher place of creation"
`` HE has said , ` In my Father 's house are many mansions , '"
replied the young wife : `` heaven is immeasurable , as the love of our Maker is immeasurable.
Even the dumb beast is His creature ; and I firmly believe that no life will be lost , but that each will receive that amount of happiness which he can enjoy , and which is sufficient for him"
`` This world is sufficient for me !"
said the man , and he threw his arms round his beautiful , amiable wife , and then smoked his cigarette on the open balcony , where the cool air was filled with the fragrance of oranges and pinks.
The sound of music and the clatter of castagnettes came up from the road , the stars gleamed above , and two eyes full of affection , the eyes of his wife , looked on him with the undying glance of love.
-LRB- Illustration : IN SPAIN.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa `` Such a moment ,"
he said , `` makes it worth while to be born , to fall , and to disappear !"
and he smiled.
The young wife raised her hand in mild reproach , and the shadow passed away from her world , and they were happy -- quite happy.
Everything seemed to work together for them.
They advanced in honor , in prosperity , and in joy.
There was a change , indeed , but only a change of place ; not in enjoyment of life and of happiness.
The young man was sent by his sovereign as ambassador to the court of Russia.
This was an honorable office , and his birth and his acquirements gave him a title to be thus honored.
He possessed a great fortune , and his wife had brought him wealth equal to his own , for she was the daughter of a rich and respected merchant.
One of this merchant 's largest and finest ships was to be dispatched during that year to Stockholm , and it was arranged that the dear young people , the daughter and the son-in-law , should travel in it to St.
Petersburg.
And all the arrangements on board were princely -- rich carpets for the feet , and silk and luxury on all sides.
In an old heroic song , `` The King 's Son of England ,"
it says , `` Moreover , he sailed in a gallant ship , and the anchor was gilded with ruddy gold , and each rope was woven through with silk ,"
And this ship involuntarily rose in the mind of him who saw the vessel from person_3 , for here was the same pomp , and the same parting thought naturally arose -- the thought : `` person_12 grant that we all in joy Once more may meet again"
And the wind blew fairly seaward from the person_14 shore , and the parting was to be but a brief one , for in a few weeks the voyagers would reach their destination ; but when they came out upon the high seas , the wind sank , the sea became calm and shining , the stars of heaven gleamed brightly , and they were festive evenings that were spent in the sumptuous cabin.
At length the voyagers began to wish for wind , for a favoring breeze ; but the breeze would not blow , or , if it did arise , it was contrary.
Thus weeks passed away , two full months ; and then at last the fair wind blew -- it blew from the south-west.
The ship sailed on the high seas between Scotland and person_2 , and the wind increased just as in the old song of `` The King 's Son of England"
`` And it blew a storm , and the rain came down , And they found not land nor shelter , And forth they threw their anchor of gold , As the wind blew westward , toward Denmark"
This all happened a long , long while ago.
King Christian VII.
then sat on the Danish throne , and he was still a young man.
Much has happened since that time , much has changed or has been changed.
Sea and moorland have been converted into green meadows , heath has become arable land , and in the shelter of the West Jute huts grow apple trees and rose bushes , though they certainly require to be sought for , as they bend beneath the sharp west wind.
In Western person_2 one may go back in thought to the old times , farther back than the days when Christian VII.
bore rule.
As it did then , in person_2 , the brown heath now also extends for miles , with its `` Hun 's Graves ,"
its aerial spectacles , and its crossing , sandy , uneven roads ; westward , where large rivulets run into the bays , extend marshes and meadow land , girdled with lofty sand-hills , which , like a row of Alps , raise their peaked summits towards the sea , only broken by the high clayey ridges , from which the waves year by year bite out huge mouthfuls , so that the impending shores fall down as if by the shock of an earthquake.
Thus it is there to-day , and thus it was many , many years ago , when the happy pair were sailing in the gorgeous ship.
It was in the last days of September , a Sunday , and sunny weather ; the chiming of the church bells in the bay of Nissum was wafted along like a chain of sounds.
The churches there are erected almost entirely of hewn boulder stones , each like a piece of rock ; the North Sea might foam over them , and they would not be overthrown.
Most of them are without steeples , and the bells are hung between two beams in the open air.
The service was over , and the congregation thronged out into the churchyard , where then , as now , not a tree nor a bush was to be seen ; not a single flower had been planted there , nor had a wreath been laid upon the graves.
Rough mounds show where the dead had been buried , and rank grass , tossed by the wind , grows thickly over the whole churchyard.
Here and there a grave had a monument to show , in the shape of a half-decayed block of wood rudely shaped into the form of a coffin , the said block having been brought from the forest of West person_2 ; but the forest of West person_2 is the wild sea itself , where the inhabitants find the hewn beams and planks and fragments which the breakers cast ashore.
The wind and the sea fog soon destroy the wood.
One of these blocks had been placed by loving hands on a child 's grave , and one of the women , who had come out of the church , stepped towards it.
She stood still in front of it , and let her glance rest on the discolored memorial.
A few moments afterwards her husband stepped up to her.
Neither of them spoke a word , but he took her hand , and they wandered across the brown heath , over moor and meadow , towards the sand-hills ; for a long time they thus walked silently side by side.
`` That was a good sermon to-day ,"
the man said at length.
`` If we had not person_12 to look to , we should have nothing !"
`` Yes ,"
observed the woman , `` He sends joy and sorrow , and He has a right to send them.
To-morrow our little boy would have been five years old , if we had been allowed to keep him"
`` You will gain nothing by fretting , wife ,"
said the man.
`` The boy is well provided for.
He is there whither we pray to go"
And they said nothing more , but went forward to their house among the sand-hills.
Suddenly , in front of one of the houses where the sea grass did not keep the sand down with its twining roots , there arose what appeared to be a column of smoke rising into the air.
A gust of wind swept in among the hills , whirling the particles of sand high in the air.
Another , and the strings of fish hung up to dry flapped and beat violently against the wall of the hut ; and then all was still again , and the sun shone down hotly.
Man and wife stepped into the house.
They had soon taken off their Sunday clothes , and emerging again , they hurried away over the dunes , which stood there like huge waves of sand suddenly arrested in their course , while the sandweeds and the dunegrass with its bluish stalks spread a changing color over them.
A few neighbors came up , and helped one another to draw the boats higher up on the sand.
The wind now blew more sharply than before ; it was cutting and cold : and when they went back over the sand-hills , sand and little pointed stones blew into their faces.
The waves reared themselves up with their white crowns of foam , and the wind cut off their crests , flinging the foam far around.
The evening came on.
In the air was a swelling roar , moaning and complaining like a troop of despairing spirits , that sounded above the hoarse rolling of the sea ; for the fisher 's little hut was on the very margin.
The sand rattled against the window panes , and every now and then came a violent gust of wind , that shook the house to its foundations.
It was dark , but towards midnight the moon would rise.
The air became clearer , but the storm swept in all its gigantic force over the perturbed sea.
The fisher people had long gone to bed , but in such weather there was no chance of closing an eye.
Presently there was a knocking at the window , and the door was opened , and a voice said : `` There 's a great ship fast stranded on the outermost reef"
In a moment the fish people had sprung from their couch , and hastily arrayed themselves.
The moon had risen , it was light enough to make the surrounding objects visible , to those who could open their eyes for the blinding clouds of sand.
The violence of the wind was terrible ; and only by creeping forward between the gusts was it possible to pass among the sand-hills ; and now the salt spray flew up from the sea like down , while the ocean foamed like a roaring cataract towards the beach.
It required a practiced eye to descry the vessel out in the offing.
The vessel was a noble brig.
The billows now lifted it over the reef , three or four cables ' lengths out of the usual channel.
It drove towards the land , struck against the second reef , and remained fixed.
-LRB- Illustration : SAVED FROM THE WRECK.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa To render assistance was impossible ; the sea rolled fairly in upon the vessel , making a clean breach over her.
Those on shore fancied they heard the cries of help from on board , and could plainly descry the busy useless efforts made by the stranded crew.
Now a wave came rolling onward , falling like a rock upon the bowsprit , and tearing it from the brig.
The stern was lifted high above the flood.
Two people were seen to embrace and plunge together into the sea ; in a moment more , and one of the largest waves that rolled towards the sand-hills threw a body upon the shore.
It was a woman , and appeared quite dead , said the sailors ; but some women thought they discerned signs of life in her , and the stranger was carried across the sand-hills into the fisherman 's hut.
How beautiful and fair she was ! certainly she must be a great lady.
They laid her upon the humble bed that boasted not a yard of linen ; but there was a woollen coverlet , and that would keep the occupant warm.
Life returned to her , but she was delirious , and knew nothing of what had happened , or where she was ; and it was better so , for everything she loved and valued lay buried in the sea.
It was with her ship as with the vessel in the song of `` The King 's Son of England"
`` Alas , it was a grief to see How the gallant ship sank speedily"
Portions of wreck and fragments of wood drifted ashore , and they were all that remained of what had been the ship.
The wind still drove howling over the coast.
For a few moments the strange lady seemed to rest ; but she awoke in pain , and cries of anguish and fear came from her lips.
She opened her wonderfully beautiful eyes , and spoke a few words , but none understood her.
And behold , as a reward for the pain and sorrow she had undergone , she held in her arms a new-born child , the child that was to have rested upon a gorgeous couch , surrounded by silken curtains , in the sumptuous home.
It was to have been welcomed with joy to a life rich in all the goods of the earth ; and now Providence had caused it to be born in this humble retreat , and not even a kiss did it receive from its mother.
The fisher 's wife laid the child upon the mother 's bosom , and it rested on a heart that beat no more , for she was dead.
The child who was to be nursed by wealth and fortune , was cast into the world , washed by the sea among the sand-hills , to partake the fate and heavy days of the poor.
And here again comes into our mind the old song of the English king 's son , in which mention is made of the customs prevalent at that time , when knights and squires plundered those who had been saved from shipwreck.
The ship had been stranded some distance south of Nissum Bay.
The hard , inhuman days in which , as we have stated , the inhabitants of the person_2 shores did evil to the shipwrecked , were long past.
Affection and sympathy and self-sacrifice for the unfortunate were to be found , as they are to be found in our own time , in many a brilliant example.
The dying mother and the unfortunate child would have found succor and help wherever the wind blew them ; but nowhere could they have found more earnest care than in the hut of the poor fisherwife ; who had stood but yesterday , with a heavy heart , beside the grave which covered her child , which would have been five years old that day , if person_12 had spared it to her.
No one knew who the dead stranger was , or could even form a conjecture.
The pieces of wreck said nothing on the subject.
Into the rich house in person_3 no tidings penetrated of the fate of the daughter and the son-in-law.
They had not arrived at their destined post , and violent storms had raged during the past weeks.
At last the verdict was given , `` Foundered at sea -- all lost"
But in the sand-hills near Hunsby , in the fisherman 's hut , lived a little scion of the rich person_14 family.
Where Heaven sends food for two , a third can manage to make a meal , and in the depths of the sea is many a dish of fish for the hungry.
And they called the boy person_7.
`` It must certainly be a Jewish child ,"
the people said , `` it looks so swarthy"
`` It might be an Italian or a Spaniard ,"
observed the clergyman.
But to the fisherwoman these three nations seemed all the same , and she consoled herself with the idea that the child was baptized as a Christian.
The boy throve.
The noble blood in his veins was warm , and he became strong on his homely fare.
He grew apace in the humble house , and the Danish dialect spoken by the West Jutes became his language.
The pomegranate seed from person_14 soil became a hardy plant on the coast of West person_2.
Such may be a man 's fate ! To this home he clung with the roots of his whole being.
He was to have experience of cold and hunger , and the misfortunes and hardships that surrounded the humble ; but he tasted also of the poor man 's joys.
Childhood has sunny heights for all , whose memory gleams through the whole after life.
The boy had many opportunities for pleasure and play.
The whole coast , for miles and miles , was full of playthings ; for it was a mosaic of pebbles , red as coral , yellow as amber , and others again white and rounded like birds ' eggs ; and all smoothed and prepared by the sea.
Even the bleached fish skeletons , the water plants dried by the wind , seaweed , white , gleaming , and long linen-like bands , waving among the stones , all these seemed made to give pleasure and amusement to the eye and the thoughts ; and the boy had an intelligent mind -- many and great faculties lay dormant in him.
How readily he retained in his mind the stories and songs he heard , and how neat-handed he was ! With stones and mussel shells he put together pictures and ships with which one could decorate the room ; and he could cut out his thoughts wonderfully on a stick , his foster-mother said , though the boy was still so young and little ! His voice sounded sweetly ; every melody flowed at once from his lips.
Many chords were attained in his heart which might have sounded out into the world , if he had been placed elsewhere than in the fisherman 's hut by the North Sea.
One day another ship was stranded there.
Among other things , a chest of rare flower bulbs floated ashore.
Some were put into the cooking pots , for they were thought to be eatable , and others lay and shrivelled in the sand , but they did not accomplish their purpose , or unfold the richness of color whose germ was within them.
Would it be better with person_7 ? The flower bulbs had soon played their part , but he had still years of apprenticeship before him.
Neither he nor his friends remarked in what a solitary and uniform way one day succeeded another ; for there was plenty to do and to see.
The sea itself was a great lesson book , unfolding a new leaf every day , such as calm and storm , breakers and waifs.
The visits to the church were festal visits.
But among the festal visits in the fisherman 's house , one was particularly distinguished.
It was repeated twice in the year , and was , in fact , the visit of the brother of person_7 's foster-mother , the eel breeder from Zjaltring , upon the neighborhood of the `` Bow Hill"
He used to come in a cart painted red , and filled with eels.
The cart was covered and locked like a box , and painted all over with blue and white tulips.
It was drawn by two dun oxen , and person_7 was allowed to guide them.
The eel breeder was a witty fellow , a merry guest , and brought a measure of brandy with him.
Every one received a small glassful , or a cupful when there was a scarcity of glasses : even person_7 had as much as a large thimbleful , that he might digest the fat eel , the eel breeder said , who always told the same story over again , and when his hearers laughed he immediately told it over again to the same audience.
As , during his childhood , and even later , person_7 used many expressions from this story of the eel breeder 's , and made use of it in various ways , it is as well that we should listen to it too.
Here it is : `` The eels went into the bay ; and the mother-eel said to her daughters , who begged leave to go a little way up the bay , ` Do n't go too far : the ugly eel spearer might come and snap you all up.
' But they went too far ; and of eight daughters only three came back to the eel-mother , and these wept and said , ` We only went a little way before the door , and the ugly eel spearer came directly , and stabbed five of our party to death.
' ` They 'll come again , ' said the mother-eel.
` Oh no , ' exclaimed the daughters , ` for he skinned them , and cut them in two , and fried them.
' ` Oh , they 'll come again , ' the mother-eel persisted.
` No , ' replied the daughters , ` for he ate them up.
' ` They 'll come again , ' repeated the mother-eel.
` But he drank brandy after them , ' continued the daughters.
` Ah , then they 'll never come back , ' said the mother , and she burst out crying , ` It 's the brandy that buries the eels.
' `` And therefore ,"
said the eel breeder , in conclusion , `` it is always right to take brandy after eating eels"
-LRB- Illustration : THE EEL BREEDER 'S VISIT.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa And this story was the tinsel thread , the most humorous recollection of person_7 's life.
_ He _ likewise wanted to go a little way outside the door , and up the bay -- that is to say , out into the world in a ship ; and his mother said , like the eel breeder , `` There are so many bad people -- eel spearers !"
But he wished to go a little way past the sand-hills , a little way into the dunes , and he succeeded in doing so.
Four merry days , the happiest of his childhood , unrolled themselves , and the whole beauty and splendor of person_2 , all the joy and sunshine of his home , was concentrated in these.
He was to go to a festival -- though it was certainly a burial feast.
A wealthy relative of the fisherman 's family had died.
The farm lay deep in the country , eastward , and a point towards the north , as the saying is.
person_7 's foster-parents were to go , and he was to accompany them from the dunes , across heath and moor.
They came to the green meadows where the river Skjaern rolls its course , the river of many eels , where mother-eels dwell with their daughters , who are caught and eaten up by wicked people.
But men were said sometimes to have acted no better towards their own fellow men ; for had not the knight , Sir Bugge , been murdered by wicked people ? and though he was well spoken of , had he not wanted to kill the architect , as the legend tells us , who had built for him the castle , with the thick walls and tower , where person_7 and his parents now stood , and where the river falls into the bay ? The wall on the ramparts still remained , and red crumbling fragments lay strewn around.
Here it was that Sir Bugge , after the architect had left him , said to one of his men , `` Go thou after him , and say , ` Master , the tower shakes.
' If he turns round , you are to kill him , and take from him the money I paid him ; but if he does not turn round , let him depart in peace"
The man obeyed , and the architect never turned round , but called back , `` The tower does not shake in the least , but one day there will come a man from the west , in a blue cloak , who will cause it to shake !"
And indeed so it chanced , a hundred years later ; for the North Sea broke in , and the tower was cast down , but the man who then possessed the castle , Prebjoern Gyldenstjerne , built a new castle higher up , at the end of the meadow , and that stands to this day , and is called Noerre person_10.
Past this castle went person_7 and his foster-parents.
They had told him its story during the long winter evenings , and now he saw the lordly castle , with its double moat , and trees , and bushes ; the wall , covered with ferns , rose within the moat ; but most beautiful of all were the lofty lime trees , which grew up to the highest windows , and filled the air with sweet fragrance.
In a corner of the garden towards the north-west stood a great bush full of blossom like winter snow amid the summer 's green : it was a juniper bush , the first that person_7 had seen thus in bloom.
He never forgot it , nor the lime tree : the child 's soul treasured up these remembrances of beauty and fragrance to gladden the old man.
From Noerre person_10 , where the juniper blossomed , the way went more easily ; for they encountered other guests who were also bound for the burial , and were riding in waggons.
Our travellers had to sit all together on a little box at the back of the waggon , but even this was preferable to walking , they thought.
So they pursued their journey in the waggon across the rugged heath.
The oxen which drew the vehicle slipped every now and then , where a patch of fresh grass appeared amid the heather.
The sun shone warm , and it was wonderful to behold how in the far distance something like smoke seemed to be rising ; and yet this smoke was clearer than the mist ; it was transparent , and looked like rays of light rolling and dancing afar over the heath.
`` That is Lokeman driving his sheep ,"
said some one ; and this was enough to excite the fancy of person_7.
It seemed to him as if they were now going to enter fairyland , though everything was still real.
How quiet it was ! Far and wide the heath extended around them like a beautiful carpet.
The heather bloomed ; the juniper bushes and the fresh oak saplings stood up like nosegays from the earth.
An inviting place for a frolic , if it were not for the number of poisonous adders of which the travellers spoke , as they did also of the wolves which formerly infested the place , from which circumstance the region was still called the Wolfsborg region.
The old man who guided the oxen related how , in the lifetime of his father , the horses had to sustain many a hard fight with the wild beasts that were now extinct ; and how he himself , when he went out one morning to bring in the horses , had found one of them standing with its fore-feet on a wolf it had killed , after the savage beast had torn and lacerated the legs of the brave horse.
The journey over the heath and the deep sand was only too quickly accomplished.
They stopped before the house of mourning , where they found plenty of guests within and without.
Waggon after waggon stood ranged in a row , and horses and oxen went out to crop the scanty pasture.
Great sand-hills , like those at home in the North Sea , rose behind the house , and extended far and wide.
How had they come here , miles into the interior of the land , and as large and high as those on the coast ? The wind had lifted and carried them hither , and to them also a history was attached.
Psalms were sung , and a few of the old people shed tears ; beyond this , the guests were cheerful enough , as it appeared to person_7 , and there was plenty to eat and drink.
Eels there were of the fattest , upon which brandy should be poured to bury them , as the eel breeder said ; and certainly his maxim was here carried out.
person_7 went to and fro in the house.
On the third day he felt quite at home , like as in the fisherman 's hut on the sand-hills where he had passed his early days.
Here on the heath there was certainly an unheard-of wealth , for the flowers and blackberries and bilberries were to be found in plenty , so large and sweet , that when they were crushed beneath the tread of the passers by , the heath was colored with their red juice.
Here was a Hun 's Grave , and yonder another.
Columns of smoke rose into the still air ; it was a heath-fire , he was told , that shone so splendidly in the dark evening.
Now came the fourth day , and the funeral festivities were to conclude , and they were to go back from the land-dunes to the sand-dunes.
`` Ours are the best ,"
said the old fisherman , person_7 's foster-father ; `` these have no strength"
And they spoke of the way in which the sand-dunes had come into the country , and it seemed all very intelligible.
This was the explanation they gave : A corpse had been found on the coast , and the peasants had buried it in the churchyard ; and from that time the sand began to fly , and the sea broke in violently.
A wise man in the parish advised them to open the grave and to look if the buried man was not lying sucking his thumb ; for if so , he was a man of the sea , and the sea would not rest until it had got him back.
So the grave was opened , and he really was found with his thumb in his mouth.
So they laid him upon a cart and harnessed two oxen before it ; and as if stung by an adder , the oxen ran away with the man of the sea over heath and moorland to the ocean ; and then the sand ceased flying inland , but the hills that had been heaped up still remained there.
All this person_7 heard and treasured in his memory from the happiest days of his childhood , the days of the burial feast.
How glorious it was to get out into strange regions , and to see strange people ! And he was to go farther still.
He was not yet fourteen years old when he went out in a ship to see what the world could show him : bad weather , heavy seas , malice , and hard men -- these were his experiences , for he became a ship boy.
There were cold nights , and bad living , and blows to be endured ; then he felt as if his noble person_14 blood boiled within him , and bitter wicked words seethed up to his lips ; but it was better to gulp them down , though he felt as the eel must feel when it is flayed and cut up , and put into the frying-pan.
`` I shall come again !"
said a voice within him.
He saw the person_14 coast , the native land of his parents.
He even saw the town where they had lived in happiness and prosperity ; but he knew nothing of his home or race , and his race knew just as little about him.
The poor ship boy was not allowed to land ; but on the last day of their stay he managed to get ashore.
There were several purchases to be made , and he was to carry them on board.
There stood person_7 in his shabby clothes , which looked as if they had been washed in the ditch and dried in the chimney : for the first time he , the inhabitant of the dunes , saw a great city.
How lofty the houses seemed , and how full of people were the streets ! some pushing this way , some that -- a perfect maelstrom of citizens and peasants , monks and soldiers -- a calling and shouting , and jingling of bell-harnessed asses and mules , and the church bells chiming between song and sound , hammering and knocking , all going on at once.
Every handicraft had its home in the basements of the houses or in the lanes ; and the sun shone so hotly , and the air was so close , that one seemed to be in an oven full of beetles , cockchafers , bees , and flies , all humming and murmuring together.
person_7 hardly knew where he was or which way he went.
Then he saw just in front of him the mighty portal of the cathedral ; the lights were gleaming in the dark aisles , and a fragrance of incense was wafted towards him.
Even the poorest beggar ventured up the steps into the temple.
The sailor with whom person_7 went took his way through the church ; and person_7 stood in the sanctuary.
Coloured pictures gleamed from their golden ground.
On the altar stood the figure of the Virgin with the child Jesus , surrounded by lights and flowers ; priests in festive garb were chanting , and choir boys , beautifully attired , swung the silver censer.
What splendor , what magnificence did he see here ! It streamed through his soul and overpowered him ; the church and the faith of his parents surrounded him , and touched a chord in his soul , so that the tears overflowed his eyes.
From the church they went to the market-place.
Here a quantity of provisions were given him to carry.
The way to the harbor was long , and , tired and overpowered by various emotions , he rested for a few moments before a splendid house , with marble pillars , statues , and broad staircases.
Here he rested his burden against the wall.
Then a liveried porter came out , lifted up a silver-headed cane , and drove him away -- him , the grandson of the house.
But no one there knew that , and he just as little as any one.
And afterwards he went on board again , and there were hard words and cuffs , little sleep and much work ; such were his experiences.
They say that it is well to suffer in youth , if age brings something to make up for it.
His time of servitude on shipboard had expired , and the vessel lay once more at Ringkjoebing , in person_2 : he came ashore and went home to the sand-dunes by Hunsby ; but his foster-mother had died while he was away on his voyage.
A hard winter followed that summer.
Snowstorms swept over land and sea , and there was a difficulty in getting about.
How variously things were distributed in the world ! here biting cold and snowstorms , while in the person_14 land there was burning sunshine and oppressive heat.
And yet , when here at home there came a clear frosty day , and person_7 saw the swans flying in numbers from the sea towards the land , and across to person_10 , it appeared to him that people could breathe most freely here ; and here too was a splendid summer ! In imagination he saw the heath bloom and grow purple with rich juicy berries , and saw the elder trees and the lime trees at person_10 in blossom.
He determined to go there once more.
Spring came on , and the fishery began.
person_7 was an active assistant in this ; he had grown in the last year , and was quick at work.
He was full of life , he understood how to swim , to tread water , to turn over and tumble in the flood.
They often warned him to beware of the troops of dogfish , which could seize the best swimmer , and draw him down , and devour him ; but such was not person_7 's fate.
At the neighbour 's on the dune was a boy named person_15 , with whom person_7 was very friendly , and the two took service in the same ship to Norway , and also went together to Holland ; and they had never had any quarrel ; but a quarrel can easily come , for when a person is hot by nature , he often uses strong gestures , and that is what person_7 did one day on board when they had a quarrel about nothing at all.
They were sitting behind the cabin door , eating out of a delf plate which they had placed between them.
person_7 held his pocket-knife in his hand , and lifted it against person_15 , and at the same time became ashy pale in the face , and his eyes had an ugly look.
person_15 only said , `` Ah ! ha ! you 're one of that sort , who are fond of using the knife !"
Hardly were the words spoken , when person_7 's hand sank down.
He answered not a syllable , but went on eating , and afterwards walked away to his work.
When they were resting again , he stepped up to person_15 , and said , `` You may hit me in the face ! I have deserved it.
But I feel as if I had a pot in me that boiled over"
`` There let the thing rest ,"
replied person_15 ; and after that they were almost doubly as good friends as before ; and when afterwards they got back to the dunes and began telling their adventures , this was told among the rest ; and person_15 said that person_7 was certainly passionate , but a good fellow for all that.
They were both young and strong , well-grown and stalwart ; but person_7 was the cleverer of the two.
In Norway the peasants go into the mountains , and lead out the cattle there to pasture.
On the west coast of person_2 , huts have been erected among the sand-hills ; they are built of pieces of wreck , and roofed with turf and heather.
There are sleeping-places around the walls , and here the fisher people live and sleep during the early spring.
Every fisherman has his female helper , his manager , as she is called , whose business consists in baiting the hooks , preparing the warm beer for the fishermen when they come ashore , and getting their dinners cooked when they come back into the hut tired and hungry.
Moreover , the managers bring up the fish from the boat , cut them open , prepare them , and have generally a great deal to do.
person_7 , his father , and several other fishermen and their managers inhabited the same hut ; person_15 lived in the next one.
One of the girls , person_13 by name , had known person_7 from childhood : they were glad to see each other , and in many things were of the same mind ; but in outward appearance they were entirely opposite ; for he was brown , whereas she was pale and had flaxen hair , and eyes as blue as the sea in sunshine.
One day as they were walking together , and person_7 held her hand in his very firmly and warmly , she said to him , `` person_7 , I have something weighing upon my heart ! Let me be your manager , for you are like a brother to me , whereas person_15 , who has engaged me -- he and I are lovers -- but you need not tell that to the rest"
And it seemed to person_7 as if the loose sand were giving way under his feet.
He spoke not a word , but only nodded his head , which signified `` yes"
More was not required ; but suddenly he felt in his heart that he detested person_15 ; and the longer he considered of this -- for he had never thought of person_13 in this way before -- the more did it become clear to him that person_15 had stolen from him the only being he loved ; and now it was all at once plain to him , that person_13 was the being in question.
When the sea is somewhat disturbed , and the fishermen come home in their great boat , it is a sight to behold how they cross the reefs.
One of the men stands upright in the bow of the boat , and the others watch him , sitting with the oars in their hands.
Outside the reef they appear to be rowing not towards the land , but backing out to sea , till the man standing in the boat gives them the sign that the great wave is coming which is to float them across the reef ; and accordingly the boat is lifted -- lifted high in the air , so that its keel is seen from the shore ; and in the next minute the whole boat is hidden from the eye ; neither mast nor keel nor people can be seen , as though the sea had devoured them ; but in a few moments they emerge like a great sea animal climbing up the waves , and the oars move as if the creature had legs.
The second and the third reef are passed in the same manner ; and now the fishermen jump into the water ; every wave helps them , and pushes the boat well forward , till at length they have drawn it beyond the range of the breakers.
A wrong order given in front of the reef -- the slightest hesitation -- and the boat must founder.
`` Then it would be all over with me , and person_15 too !"
This thought struck person_7 while they were out at sea , where his foster-father had been taken alarmingly ill.
.
The fever had seized him.
They were only a few oars ' strokes from the reef , and person_7 sprang from his seat , and stood up in the bow.
`` Father -- let me come !"
he said ; and his eye glanced towards person_15 , and across the waves : but while every oar bent with the exertions of the rowers , as the great wave came towering towards them , he beheld the pale face of his father , and dare not obey the evil impulse that had seized him.
The boat came safely across the reef to land , but the evil thought remained in his blood , and roused up every little fiber of bitterness which had remained in his memory since he and person_15 had been comrades.
But he could not weave the fibers together , nor did he endeavor to do so.
He felt that person_15 had despoiled him , and this was enough to make him detest his former friend.
Several of the fishermen noticed this , but not person_15 , who continued obliging and talkative -- the latter a little too much.
person_7 's adopted father had to keep his bed , which became his deathbed , for in the next week he died ; and now person_7 was installed as heir in the little house behind the sand-hills.
It was but a little house , certainly , but still it was something , and person_15 had nothing of the kind.
`` You will not take sea service again , person_7 ?"
observed one of the old fishermen.
`` You will always stay with us , now"
But this was not person_7 's intention , for he was just thinking of looking about him a little in the world.
The eel breeder of Zjaltring had an uncle in Alt-Skage , who was a fisherman , but at the same time a prosperous merchant , who had ships upon the sea ; he was said to be a good old man , and it would not be amiss to enter his service.
Alt-Skage lies in the extreme north of person_2 , as far removed from the Hunsby dunes as one can travel in that country ; and this is just what pleased person_7 , for he did not want to remain till the wedding of person_15 and person_13 , which was to be celebrated in a few weeks.
-LRB- Illustration : ELSE AFFIRMS HER PREFERENCE FOR MARTIN.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa The old fisherman asserted that it was foolish now to quit the neighborhood ; for that person_7 had a home , and person_13 would probably be inclined to take him rather than person_15.
person_7 answered so much at random , that it was not easy to understand what he meant ; but the old man brought person_13 to him , and she said , `` You have a home now ; that ought to be well considered"
And person_7 thought of many things.
The sea has heavy waves , but there are heavier waves in the human heart.
Many thoughts , strong and weak , thronged through person_7 's brain ; and he said to person_13 , `` If person_15 had a house like mine , whom would you rather have ?"
`` But person_15 has no house , and can not get one"
`` But let us suppose he had one"
`` Why then I would certainly take person_15 , for that 's what my heart tells me ; but one ca n't live upon that"
And person_7 thought of these things all night through.
Something was working within him , he could not understand what it was , but he had a thought that was stronger than his love for person_13 ; and so he went to person_15 , and what he said and did there was well considered.
He let the house to person_15 on the most liberal terms , saying that he wished to go to sea again , because it pleased him to do so.
And person_13 kissed him on the mouth when she heard that , for she loved person_15 best.
In the early morning person_7 purposed to start.
On the evening before his departure , when it was already growing late , he felt a wish to visit person_15 once more ; he started , and among the dunes the old fisher met him , who was angry at his going.
The old man made jokes about person_15 , and declared there must be some magic about that fellow , `` of whom all the girls were so fond"
person_7 paid no heed to this speech , but said farewell to the old man , and went on towards the house where person_15 dwelt.
He heard loud talking within.
person_15 was not alone , and this made person_7 waver in his determination , for he did not wish to encounter person_13 ; and on second consideration , he thought it better not to hear person_15 thank him again , and therefore turned back.
On the following morning , before break of day , he fastened his knapsack , took his wooden provision box in his hand , and went away among the sand-hills towards the coast path.
The way was easier to traverse than the heavy sand road , and moreover shorter ; for he intended to go in the first instance to Zjaltring , by Bowberg , where the eel breeder lived , to whom he had promised a visit.
The sea lay pure and blue before him , and mussel shells and sea pebbles , the playthings of his youth , crunched under his feet.
While he was thus marching on , his nose suddenly began to bleed : it was a trifling incident , but little things can have great significances.
A few large drops of blood fell upon one of his sleeves.
He wiped them off and stopped the bleeding , and it seemed to him as if this had cleared and lightened his brain.
In the sand the sea-eringa was blooming here and there.
He broke off a stalk and stuck it in his hat ; he determined to be merry and of good cheer , for he was going into the wide world -- `` a little way outside the door , in front of the hay ,"
as the young eels had said.
`` Beware of bad people , who will catch you and flay you , cut you in two , and put you in the frying-pan !"
he repeated in his mind , and smiled , for he thought he should find his way through the world -- good courage is a strong weapon ! The sun already stood high when he approached the narrow entrance to Nissum Bay.
He looked back , and saw a couple of horsemen gallopping a long distance behind him , and they were accompanied by other people.
But this concerned him nothing.
The ferry was on the opposite side of the bay.
person_7 called to the ferryman ; and when the latter came over with the boat , person_7 stepped in ; but before they had gone half-way across , the men whom he had seen riding so hastily behind him , hailed the ferryman , and summoned him to return in the name of the law.
person_7 did not understand the reason of this , but he thought it would be best to turn back , and therefore himself took an oar and returned.
The moment the boat touched the shore , the men sprang on board , and , before he was aware , they had bound his hands with a rope.
`` Thy wicked deed will cost thee thy life ,"
they said.
`` It is well that we caught thee"
He was accused of nothing less than murder.
person_15 had been found dead , with a knife thrust through his neck.
One of the fishermen had -LRB- late on the previous evening -RRB- met person_7 going towards person_15 's house ; and this was not the first time person_7 had raised his knife against person_15 -- so they knew that he was the murderer.
The town in which the prison was built was a long way off , and the wind was contrary for going there ; but not half an hour would be required to get across the bay , and a quarter of an hour would bring them from thence to Noerre person_10 , a great castle with walls and ditches.
One of person_7 's captors was a fisherman , a brother of the keeper of the castle ; and he declared it might be managed that person_7 should for the present be put into the dungeon at person_10 , where Long Martha the gipsy had been shut up till her execution.
No attention was paid to the defense made by person_7 ; the few drops of blood upon his shirt-sleeve bore heavy witness against him.
But person_7 was conscious of innocence ; and as there was no chance of immediately righting himself , he submitted to his fate.
The party landed just at the spot where Sir Bugge 's castle had stood and where person_7 had walked with his foster-parents after the burial feast , during the four happiest days of his childhood.
He was led by the old path over the meadow to person_10 ; and again the elder blossomed and the lofty lindens smelt sweet , and it seemed but yesterday that he had left the spot.
In the two wings of the castle a staircase leads down to a spot below the entrance , and from thence there is access to a low vaulted cellar.
Here Long Martha had been imprisoned , and hence she had been led away to the scaffold.
She had eaten the hearts of five children , and had been under the delusion that if she could obtain two more , she would be able to fly and to make herself invisible.
In the midst of the cellar roof was a little narrow air-hole , but no window.
The blooming lindens could not waft a breath of comforting fragrance into that abode , where all was dark and mouldy.
Only a rough bench stood in the prison ; but `` a good conscience is a soft pillow ,"
and consequently person_7 could sleep well.
The thick oaken door was locked , and secured on the outside by an iron bar ; but the goblin of superstition can creep through a keyhole into the baron 's castle just as into the fisherman 's hut ; and wherefore should he not creep in here , where person_7 sat thinking of Long Martha and her evil deeds ? Her last thought on the night before her execution had filled this space ; and all the magic came into person_7 's mind which tradition asserted to have been practiced there in the old times , when Sir Schwanwedel dwelt there.
All this passed through person_7 's mind , and made him shudder ; but a sunbeam -- a refreshing thought from without -- penetrated his heart even here ; it was the remembrance of the blooming elder and the fragrant lime trees.
He was not left there long.
They carried him off to the town of Ringkjoebing , where his imprisonment was just as hard.
Those times were not like ours.
Hard measure was dealt out to the `` common"
people ; and it was just after the days when farms were converted into knights ' estates , on which occasions coachmen and servants were often made magistrates , and had it in their power to sentence a poor man , for a small offence , to lose his property and to corporal punishment.
Judges of this kind were still to be found ; and in person_2 , far from the capital and from the enlightened well-meaning head of the government , the law was still sometimes very loosely administered ; and the smallest grievance that person_7 had to expect was that his case would be protracted.
Cold and cheerless was his abode -- and when would this state of things end ? He had innocently sunk into misfortune and sorrow -- that was his fate.
He had leisure now to ponder on the difference of fortune on earth , and to wonder why this fate had been allotted to him ; and he felt sure that the question would be answered in the next life -- the existence that awaits us when this is over.
This faith had grown strong in him in the poor fisherman 's hut ; that which had never shone into his father 's mind , in all the richness and sunshine of person_3 , was vouchsafed as a light of comfort in his poverty and distress -- a sign of mercy from person_12 that never deceives.
The spring storms began to blow.
The rolling and moaning of the North Sea could be heard for miles inland when the wind was lulled ; for then it sounded like the rushing of a thousand waggons over a hard road with a mine beneath.
person_7 , in his prison , heard these sounds , and it was a relief to him.
No melody could have appealed so directly to his heart as did these sounds of the sea -- the rolling sea , the boundless sea , on which a man can be borne across the world before the wind , carrying his own house with him wherever he is driven , just as the snail carries its home even into a strange land.
How he listened to the deep moaning , and how the thought arose in him -- `` Free ! free ! How happy to be free , even without shoes and in ragged clothes !"
Sometimes , when such thoughts crossed his mind , the fiery nature rose within him , and he beat the wall with his clenched fists.
Weeks , months , a whole year had gone by , when a vagabond -- Niels , the thief , called also the horse couper -- was arrested ; and now the better times came , and it was seen what wrong person_7 had endured.
In the neighborhood of Ringkjoebing , at a beer-house , Niels , the thief , had met person_15 on the afternoon before person_7 's departure from home and before the murder.
A few glasses were drunk -- not enough to cloud any one 's brain , but yet enough to loosen person_15 's tongue ; and he began to boast , and to say that he had obtained a house , and intended to marry ; and when Niels asked where he intended to get the money , person_15 shook his pocket proudly , and said , `` The money is there , where it ought to be"
This boast cost him his life ; for when he went home , Niels went after him , and thrust a knife through his throat , to rob the murdered man of the expected gold , which did not exist.
This was circumstantially explained ; but for us it is enough to know that person_7 was set at liberty.
But what amends did he get for having been imprisoned a whole year , and shut out from all communion with men ? They told him he was fortunate in being proved innocent , and that he might go.
The burgomaster gave him two dollars for traveling expenses , and many citizens offered him provisions and beer -- there were still good men , not all `` grind and flay"
But the best of all was , that the merchant person_9 of person_4 , the same into whose service person_7 intended to go a year since , was just at that time on business in the town of Ringkjoebing.
person_9 heard the whole story ; and the man had a good heart , and understood what person_7 must have felt and suffered.
He therefore made up his mind to make it up to the poor lad , and convince him that there were still kind folks in the world.
So person_7 went forth from the prison as if to Paradise , to find freedom , affection , and trust.
He was to travel this road now ; for no goblet of life is all bitterness : no good man would pour out such measure to his fellow man , and how should He do it , who is love itself ? `` Let all that be buried and forgotten ,"
said person_9 the merchant.
`` Let us draw a thick line through last year ; and we will even burn the calendar.
And in two days we 'll start for dear , friendly , peaceful person_4.
They call person_4 an out-of-the-way corner ; but it 's a good warm chimney-corner , and its windows open towards every part of the world"
That was a journey ! -- it was like taking fresh breath -- out of the cold dungeon air into the warm sunshine ! The heath stood blooming in its greatest pride , and the herd-boy sat on the Hun 's Grave and blew his pipe , which he had carved for himself out of the sheep 's bone.
Fata Morgana , the beautiful aerial phenomenon of the desert , showed itself with hanging gardens and swaying forests , and the wonderful cloud phenomenon , called here the `` Lokeman driving his flock ,"
was seen likewise.
Up through the land of the Wendels , up towards person_4 , they went , from whence the men with the long beards -LRB- the Longobardi , or Lombards -RRB- had emigrated in the days when , in the reign of King Snio , all the children and the old people were to have been killed , till the noble Dame Gambaruk proposed that the young people had better emigrate.
All this was known to person_7 -- thus much knowledge he had ; and even if he did not know the land of the Lombards beyond the high Alps , he had an idea how it must be there , for in his boyhood he had been in the south , in person_3.
He thought of the southern fruits piled up there ; of the red pomegranate blossoms ; of the humming , murmuring , and toiling in the great beehive of a city he had seen ; but , after all , home is best ; and person_7 's home was Denmark.
-LRB- Illustration : JUeRGEN 'S BETTER FORTUNE.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa At length they reached `` Wendelskajn ,"
as person_4 is called in the old Norwegian and Icelandic writings.
Then already Old person_4 , with the western and eastern town , extended for miles , with sand-hills and arable land , as far as the lighthouse near the `` person_4zweig"
Then , as now , the houses were strewn among the wind-raised sand-hills -- a desert where the wind sports with the sand , and where the voices of the seamen and the wild swans strike harshly on the ear.
In the south-west , a mile from the sea , lies Old person_4 ; and here dwelt merchant person_9 , and here person_7 was henceforth to dwell.
The great house was painted with tar ; the smaller buildings had each an overturned boat for a roof ; the pig-sty had been put together of pieces of wreck.
There was no fence here , for indeed there was nothing to fence in ; but long rows of fishes were hung upon lines , one above the other , to dry in the wind.
The whole coast was strewn with spoilt herrings ; for there were so many of those fish , that a net was scarcely thrown into the sea before they were caught by cartloads ; there were so many , that often they were thrown back into the sea , or left to lie on the shore.
The old man 's wife and daughter , and his servants too , came rejoicingly to meet him.
There was a great pressing of hands , and talking , and questioning.
And the daughter , what a lovely face and bright eyes she had ! The interior of the house was roomy and comfortable.
Fritters that a king would have looked upon as a dainty dish , were placed on the table ; and there was wine from the vineyard of person_4 -- that is , the sea ; for there the grapes come ashore ready pressed and prepared in barrels and in bottles.
When the mother and daughter heard who person_7 was , and how innocently he had suffered , they looked at him in a still more friendly way ; and the eyes of the charming person_8 were the friendliest of all.
person_7 found a happy home in Old person_4.
It did his heart good ; and his heart had been sorely tried , and had drunk the bitter goblet of love , which softens or hardens according to circumstances.
person_7 's heart was still soft -- it was young , and there was still room in it ; and therefore it was well that Mistress person_8 was going in three weeks in her father 's ship to Christiansand , in Norway , to visit an aunt , and to stay there the whole winter.
On the Sunday before her departure they all went to church , to the holy Communion.
The church was large and handsome , and had been built centuries before by Scotchmen and Hollanders ; it lay at a little distance from the town.
It was certainly somewhat ruinous , and the road to it was heavy , through the deep sand ; but the people gladly went through the difficulties to get to the house of person_12 , to sing psalms and hear the sermon.
The sand had heaped itself up round the walls of the church ; but the graves were kept free from it.
It was the largest church north of the Limfjord.
The Virgin Mary , with the golden crown on her head and the child Jesus in her arms , stood life-like upon the altar ; the holy Apostles had been carved in the choir ; and on the wall hung portraits of the old burgomasters and councillors of person_4 ; the pulpit was of carved work.
The sun shone brightly into the church , and its radiance fell on the polished brass chandelier , and on the little ship that hung from the vaulted roof.
person_7 felt as if overcome by a holy , childlike feeling , like that which possessed him when , as a boy , he had stood in the splendid person_14 cathedral ; but here the feeling was different , for he felt conscious of being one of the congregation.
After the sermon followed the holy Communion.
He partook of the bread and wine , and it happened that he knelt beside Mistress person_8 ; but his thoughts were so fixed upon Heaven and the holy service , that he did not notice his neighbor until he rose from his knees , and then he saw tears rolling down her cheeks.
Two days later she left person_4 and went to Norway.
He stayed behind , and made himself useful in the house and in the business.
He went out fishing , and at that time fish were more plentiful and larger than now.
Every Sunday when he sat in the church , and his eye rested on the statue of the Virgin on the altar , his glance rested for a time on the spot where Mistress person_8 had knelt beside him , and he thought of her , how hearty and kind she had been to him.
And so the autumn and the winter time passed away.
There was wealth here , and a real family life ; even down to the domestic animals , who were all well kept.
The kitchen glittered with copper and tin and white plates , and from the roof hung hams and beef , and winter stores in plenty.
All this is still to be seen in many rich farms of the west coast of person_2 : plenty to eat and drink , clean decorated rooms , clever heads , happy tempers , and hospitality prevail there as in an Arab tent.
Never since the famous burial feast had person_7 spent such a happy time ; and yet Mistress person_8 was absent , except in the thoughts and memory of all.
In April a ship was to start for Norway , and person_7 was to sail in it.
He was full of life and spirits , and looked so stout and jovial that Dame person_9 declared it did her good to see him.
`` And it 's a pleasure to see you too , old wife ,"
said the old merchant.
`` person_7 has brought life into our winter evenings , and into you too , mother.
You look younger this year , and you seem well and bonny.
But then you were once the prettiest girl in Wiborg , and that 's saying a great deal , for I have always found the Wiborg girls the prettiest of any"
person_7 said nothing to this , but he thought of a certain maiden of person_4 ; and he sailed to visit that maiden , for the ship steered to Christiansand , in Norway , and a favoring wind bore it rapidly to that town.
One morning merchant person_9 went out to the lighthouse that stands far away from Old person_4 : the coal fire had long gone out , and the sun was already high when he mounted the tower.
The sand-banks extend under the water a whole mile from the shore.
Outside these banks many ships were seen that day ; and with the help of his telescope the old man thought he descried his own vessel , the `` Karen person_9"
Yes , surely there she was ; and the ship was sailing up with person_7 and person_8 on board.
The church and the lighthouse appeared to them as a heron and a swan rising from the blue waters.
person_8 sat on deck , and saw the sand-hills gradually looming forth : if the wind held she might reach her home in about an hour -- so near were they to home and its joys -- so near were they to death and its terrors.
For a plank in the ship gave way , and the water rushed in.
The crew flew to the pumps , and attempted to stop the leak.
A signal of distress was hoisted ; but they were still a full mile from the shore.
Fishing boats were in sight , but they were still far distant.
The wind blew shoreward , and the tide was in their favor too ; but all was insufficient , for the ship sank.
person_7 threw his right arm about person_8 , and pressed her close to him.
With what a look she gazed in his face ! As he threw himself in person_12 's name into the water with her , she uttered a cry ; but still she felt safe , certain that he would not let her sink.
And now , in the hour of terror and danger , person_7 experienced what the old song told : `` And written it stood , how the brave king 's son Embraced the bride his valor had won"
How rejoiced he felt that he was a good swimmer ! He worked his way onward with his feet and with one hand , while with the other he tightly held the young girl.
He rested upon the waves , he trod the water , he practiced all the arts he knew , so as to reserve strength enough to reach the shore.
He heard how person_8 uttered a sigh , and felt a convulsive shudder pass through her , and he pressed her to him closer than ever.
Now and then a wave rolled over her ; and he was still a few cables ' lengths from the land , when help came in the shape of an approaching boat.
But under the water -- he could see it clearly -- stood a white form gazing at him : a wave lifted him up , and the form approached him : he felt a shock , and it grew dark , and everything vanished from his gaze.
On the sand-reef lay the wreck of a ship , the sea washed over it ; the white figure-head leaned against an anchor , the sharp iron extended just to the surface.
person_7 had come in contact with this , and the tide had driven him against it with double force.
He sank down fainting with his load ; but the next wave lifted him and the young girl aloft again.
The fishermen grasped them , and lifted them into the boat.
The blood streamed down over person_7 's face ; he seemed dead , but he still clutched the girl so tightly that they were obliged to loosen her by force from his grasp.
And person_8 lay pale and lifeless in the boat , that now made for the shore.
All means were tried to restore person_8 to life ; but she was dead ! For some time he had been swimming onward with a corpse , and had exerted himself to exhaustion for one who was dead.
person_7 was still breathing.
The fishermen carried him into the nearest house upon the sand-hills.
A kind of surgeon who lived there , and was at the same time a smith and a general dealer , bound up person_7 's wounds in a temporary way , till a physician could be got next day from the nearest town.
The brain of the sick man was affected.
In delirium he uttered wild cries ; but on the third day he lay quiet and exhausted on his couch , and his life seemed to hang by a thread , and the physician said it would be best if this string snapped.
`` Let us pray that person_12 may take him to Himself ; he will never be a sane man again !"
But life would not depart from him -- the thread would not snap ; but the thread of memory broke : the thread of all his mental power had been cut through ; and , what was most terrible , a body remained -- a living healthy body -- that wandered about like a spectre.
person_7 remained in the house of the merchant person_9.
`` He contracted his illness in his endeavor to save our child ,"
said the old man , `` and now he is our son"
People called person_7 imbecile ; but that was not the right expression.
He was like an instrument , in which the strings are loose and will sound no more ; only at times for a few minutes they regained their power , and then they sounded anew : old melodies were heard , snatches of song ; pictures unrolled themselves , and then disappeared again in the mist , and once more he sat staring before him , without a thought.
We may believe that he did not suffer , but his dark eyes lost their brightness , and looked only like black clouded glass.
`` Poor imbecile person_7 !"
said the people.
He it was whose life was to have been so pleasant that it would be `` presumption and pride"
to expect or believe in a higher existence hereafter.
All his great mental faculties had been lost ; only hard days , pain , and disappointment had been his lot.
He was like a rare plant torn from its native soil , and thrown upon the sand , to wither there.
And was the image , fashioned in person_12 's likeness , to have no better destination ? Was it to be merely the sport of chance ? No.
.
The all-loving person_12 would certainly repay him in the life to come , for what he had suffered and lost here.
`` The Lord is good to all ; and His mercy is over all His works"
These words from the Psalms of David , the old pious wife of the merchant repeated in patience and hope , and the prayer of her heart was that person_7 might soon be summoned to enter into the life eternal.
In the churchyard where the sand blows across the walls , person_8 lay buried.
It seemed as if person_7 knew nothing of this -- it did not come within the compass of his thoughts , which comprised only fragments of a past time.
Every Sunday he went with the old people to church , and sat silent there with vacant gaze.
One day , while the Psalms were being sung , he uttered a deep sigh , and his eyes gleamed : they were fixed upon the altar , upon the place where he had knelt with his friend who was dead.
He uttered her name , and became pale as death , and tears rolled over his cheeks.
They led him out of the church ; and he said to the bystanders that he was well , and had never been ill : he , the heavily afflicted , the waif cast forth upon the world , remembered nothing of his sufferings.
And the Lord our Creator is wise and full of loving-kindness -- who can doubt it ? In person_3 , where the warm breezes blow over the Moorish cupola , among the orange trees and laurels , where song and the sound of castagnettes are always heard , sat in the sumptuous house a childish old man , the richest merchant in the place , while children marched in procession through the streets , with waving flags and lighted tapers.
How much of his wealth would the old man not have given to be able to press his children to his heart ! his daughter , or her child , that had perhaps never seen the light in this world , far less a Paradise.
`` Poor child !"
Yes , poor child -- a child still , and yet more than thirty years old ; for to that age person_7 had attained in Old person_4.
The drifting sand had covered the graves in the churchyard quite up to the walls of the church ; but yet the dead must be buried among their relations and loved ones who had gone before them.
Merchant person_9 and his wife now rested here with their children , under the white sand.
It was spring-time , the season of storms.
The sand-hills whirled up in clouds , and the sea ran high , and flocks of birds flew like clouds in the storms , shrieking across the dunes ; and shipwreck followed shipwreck on the reefs of `` person_4zweig"
from towards the Hunsby dunes.
One evening person_7 was sitting alone in the room.
Suddenly his mind seemed to become clearer , and a feeling of unrest came upon him , which in his younger years had often driven him forth upon the heath and the sand-hills.
`` Home ! home !"
he exclaimed.
No one heard him.
He went out of the house towards the dunes.
Sand and stones blew into his face and whirled around him.
He went on farther and farther , towards the church : the sand lay high around the walls , half over the windows ; but the heap had been shovelled away from the door , and the entrance was free and easy to open ; and person_7 went into the church.
The storm went howling over the town of person_4.
Within the memory of man the sea had not run so high -- a terrible tempest ! but person_7 was in the temple of person_12 , and while black night reigned without , a light arose in his soul , a light that was never to be extinguished ; he felt the heavy stone which seemed to weigh upon his head burst asunder.
He thought he heard the sound of the organ , but it was the storm and the moaning of the sea.
He sat down on one of the seats ; and behold , the candles were lighted up one by one ; a richness was displayed such as he had only seen in the church in person_3 ; and all the pictures of the old councillors were endued with life , and stepped forth from the walls against which they had stood for centuries , and seated themselves in the entrance of the church.
The gates and doors flew open , and in came all the dead people , festively clad , and sat down to the sound of beautiful music , and filled the seats in the church.
Then the psalm tune rolled forth like a sounding sea ; and his old foster-parents from the Hunsby dunes were here , and the old merchant person_9 and his wife ; and at their side , close to person_7 , sat their friendly , lovely daughter person_8 , who gave her hand to person_7 , and they both went to the altar , where they had once knelt together , and the priest joined their hands and joined them together for life.
Then the sound of music was heard again , wonderful , like a child 's voice full of joy and expectation , and it swelled on to an organ 's sound , to a tempest of full , noble sounds , lovely and elevating to hear , and yet strong enough to burst the stone tombs.
And the little ship that hung down from the roof of the choir came down , and became wonderfully large and beautiful , with silken sails and golden yards , `` and every rope wrought through with silk ,"
as the old song said.
The married pair went on board , and the whole congregation with them , for there was room and joyfulness for all.
And the walls and arches of the church bloomed like the juniper and the fragrant lime trees , and the leaves and branches waved and distributed coolness ; then they bent and parted , and the ship sailed through the midst of them , through the sea , and through the air ; and every church taper became a star , and the wind sang a psalm tune , and all sang with the wind : `` In love , to glory -- no life shall be lost.
Full of blessedness and joy.
Hallelujah !"
And these words were the last that person_7 spoke in this world.
The thread snapped that bound the immortal soul , and nothing but a dead body lay in the dark church , around which the storm raged , covering it with loose sand.
The next morning was Sunday , and the congregation and their pastor went forth to the service.
The road to church had been heavy ; the sand made the way almost impassable ; and now , when they at last reached their goal , a great hill of sand was piled up before the entrance , and the church itself was buried.
The priest spoke a short prayer , and said that person_12 had closed the door of this house , and the congregation must go and build a new one for Him elsewhere.
So they sang a psalm under the open sky , and went back to their homes.
person_7 was nowhere to be found in the town of person_4 , or in the dunes , however much they sought for him.
It was thought that the waves , which had rolled far up on the sand , had swept him away.
His body lay buried in a great sepulchre , in the church itself.
In the storm the Lord 's hand had thrown a handful of earth on his grave ; and the heavy mound of sand lay upon it , and lies there to this day.
The whirling sand had covered the high vaulted passages ; whitethorn and wild rose trees grow over the church , over which the wanderer now walks ; while the tower , standing forth like a gigantic tombstone over a grave , is to be seen for miles around : no king has a more splendid tombstone.
No one disturbs the rest of the dead ; no one knew of this , and we are the first who know of this grave -- the storm sang the tale to me among the sand-hills.
THE BISHOP OF BOeRGLUM AND HIS WARRIORS.
Our scene is in Northern person_2 , in the so called `` wild moor"
We hear what is called the `` Wester-wow-wow"
-- the peculiar roar of the North Sea as it breaks against the western coast of person_2.
It rolls and thunders with a sound that penetrates for miles into the land ; and we are quite near the roaring.
Before us rises a great mound of sand -- a mountain we have long seen , and towards which we are wending our way , driving slowly along through the deep sand.
On this mountain of sand is a lofty old building -- the convent of person_5.
In one of its wings -LRB- the larger one -RRB- there is still a church.
And at this convent we now arrive in the late evening hour ; but the weather is clear in the bright June night around us.
The eye can range far , far over field and moor to the bay of Aalborg , over heath and meadow , and far across the dark blue sea.
Now we are there , and roll past between barns and other farm buildings ; and at the left of the gate we turn aside to the old Castle Farm , where the lime trees stand in lines along the walls , and , sheltered from the wind and weather , grow so luxuriously that their twigs and leaves almost conceal the windows.
We mount the winding staircase of stone , and march through the long passages under the heavy roof-beams.
The wind moans very strangely here , both within and without.
It is hardly known how , but people say -- yes , people say a great many things when they are frightened or want to frighten others -- they say that the old dead choir-men glide silently past us into the church , where mass is sung.
They can be heard in the rushing of the storm , and their singing brings up strange thoughts in the hearers -- thoughts of the old times into which we are carried back.
On the coast a ship is stranded ; and the bishop 's warriors are there , and spare not those whom the sea has spared.
The sea washes away the blood that has flowed from cloven skulls.
The stranded goods belong to the bishop , and there is a store of goods here.
The sea casts up tubs and barrels filled with costly wine for the convent cellar ; and in the convent is already good store of beer and mead.
There is plenty in the kitchen -- dead game and poultry , hams and sausages ; and fat fish swim in the ponds without.
The Bishop of person_5 is a mighty lord.
He has great possessions , but still he longs for more -- everything must bow before the mighty person_6.
His rich cousin at Thyland is dead , and his widow is to have the rich inheritance.
But how comes it that one relation is always harder towards another than even strangers would be ? The widow 's husband had possessed all Thyland , with the exception of the Church property.
Her son was not at home.
In his boyhood he had already started on a journey , for his desire was to see foreign lands and strange people.
For years there had been no news of him.
Perhaps he had long been laid in the grave , and would never come back to his home to rule where his mother then ruled.
`` What has a woman to do with rule ?"
said the bishop.
He summoned the widow before a court ; but what did he gain thereby ? The widow had never been disobedient to the law , and was strong in her just rights.
Bishop person_6 , of person_5 , what dost thou purpose ? What writest thou on yonder smooth parchment , sealing it with thy seal , and intrusting it to the horsemen and servants , who ride away -- far away -- to the city of the Pope ? It is the time of falling leaves and of stranded ships , and soon icy winter will come.
Twice had icy winter returned before the bishop welcomed the horsemen and servants back to their home.
They came from Rome with a papal decree -- a ban , or bull , against the widow who had dared to offend the pious bishop.
`` Cursed be she , and all that belongs to her.
Let her be expelled from the congregation and the Church.
Let no man stretch forth a helping hand to her , and let friends and relations avoid her as a plague and a pestilence !"
`` What will not bend must break ,"
said the Bishop of person_5.
And all forsake the widow ; but she holds fast to her person_12.
He is her helper and defender.
One servant only -- an old maid -- remained faithful to her ; and , with the old servant , the widow herself followed the plough ; and the crop grew , though the land had been cursed by the Pope and the bishop.
`` Thou child of hell , I will yet carry out my purpose !"
cries the Bishop of person_5.
`` Now will I lay the hand of the Pope upon thee , to summon thee before the tribunal that shall condemn thee !"
-LRB- Illustration : JENS GLOB MEETS HIS MOTHER.
aaaaa -RRB- aaa Then did the widow yoke the two last oxen that remained to her to a waggon , and mounted upon the waggon , with her old servant , and traveled away across the heath out of the Danish land.
As a stranger she came into a foreign country , where a strange tongue was spoken and where new customs prevailed.
Farther and farther she journeyed , to where green hills rise into mountains , and the vine clothes their sides.
Strange merchants drive by her , and they look anxiously after their waggons laden with merchandise.
They fear an attack from the armed followers of the robber-knights.
The two poor women , in their humble vehicle drawn by two black oxen , travel fearlessly through the dangerous sunken road and through the darksome forest.
And now they were in Franconia.
And there met them a stalwart knight , with a train of twelve armed followers.
He paused , gazed at the strange vehicle , and questioned the women as to the goal of their journey and the place whence they came.
Then one of them mentioned Thyland , in Denmark , and spoke of her sorrows -- of her woes -- which were soon to cease ; for so Divine Providence had willed it.
For the stranger knight is the widow 's son.
He seized her hand , he embraced her , and the mother wept.
For years she had not been able to weep , but had only bitten her lips till the blood started.
It is the time of falling leaves and of stranded ships , and soon will icy winter come.
The sea rolled wine-tubs to the shore for the bishop 's cellar.
In the kitchen the deer roasted on the spit before the fire.
At person_5 it was warm and cheerful in the heated rooms , while cold winter raged without , when a piece of news was brought to the bishop : `` person_11 person_1 , of Thyland , has come back , and his mother with him"
person_11 person_1 laid a complaint against the bishop , and summoned him before the temporal and the spiritual court.
`` That will avail him little ,"
said the bishop.
`` Best leave off thy efforts , knight person_11"
Again it is the time of falling leaves , of stranded ships -- icy winter comes again , and the `` white bees"
are swarming , and sting the traveller 's face till they melt.
`` Keen weather to-day ,"
say the people , as they step in.
person_11 person_1 stands so deeply wrapped in thought that he singes the skirt of his wide garment.
`` Thou person_5 bishop ,"
he exclaims , `` I shall subdue thee after all ! Under the shield of the Pope , the law can not reach thee ; but person_11 person_1 shall reach thee !"
Then he writes a letter to his brother-in-law , person_6 , in Sallingland , and prays that knight to meet him on Christmas Eve , at mass , in the church at Widberg.
The bishop himself is to read the mass , and consequently will journey from person_5 to Thyland ; and this is known to person_11 person_1.
Moorland and meadow are covered with ice and snow.
The marsh will bear horse and rider , the bishop with his priests , and armed men.
They ride the shortest way , through the waving reeds , where the wind moans sadly.
Blow thy brazen trumpet , thou trumpeter clad in foxskin ! it sounds merrily in the clear air.
So they ride on over heath and moorland -- over what is the garden of Fata Morgana in the hot summer , though now icy , like all the country -- towards the church of Widberg.
The wind is blowing his trumpet too -- blowing it harder and harder.
He blows up a storm -- a terrible storm -- that increases more and more.
Towards the church they ride , as fast as they may through the storm.
The church stands firm , but the storm careers on over field and moorland , over land and sea.
person_5 's bishop reaches the church ; but person_6 will scarce do so , hard as he may ride.
He journeys with his warriors on the farther side of the bay , to help person_11 person_1 , now that the bishop is to be summoned before the judgment seat of the Highest.
The church is the judgment hall ; the altar is the council table.
The lights burn clear in the heavy brass candelabra.
The storm reads out the accusation and the sentence , roaming in the air over moor and heath , and over the rolling waters.
No ferry-boat can sail over the bay in such weather as this.
person_6 makes halt at Ottesworde.
There he dismisses his warriors , presents them with their horses and harness , and gives them leave to ride home and greet his wife.
He intends to risk his life alone in the roaring waters ; but they are to bear witness for him that it is not his fault if person_11 person_1 stands without reinforcement in the church at Widberg.
The faithful warriors will not leave him , but follow him out into the deep waters.
Ten of them are carried away ; but person_6 and two of the youngest men reach the farther side.
They have still four miles to ride.
It is past midnight.
It is Christmas.
The wind has abated.
The church is lighted up ; the gleaming radiance shines through the window-frames , and pours out over meadow and heath.
The mass has long been finished , silence reigns in the church , and the wax is heard dropping from the candles to the stone pavement.
And now person_6 arrives.
In the forecourt person_11 person_1 greets him kindly , and says , `` I have just made an agreement with the bishop"
`` Sayest thou so ?"
replied person_6.
`` Then neither thou nor the bishop shall quit this church alive"
And the sword leaps from the scabbard , and person_6 deals a blow that makes the panel of the church-door , which person_11 person_1 hastily closes between them , fly in fragments.
`` Hold , brother ! First hear what the agreement was that I made.
I have slain the bishop and his warriors and priests.
They will have no word more to say in the matter , nor will I speak again of all the wrong that my mother has endured"
The long wicks of the altar lights glimmer red ; but there is a redder gleam upon the pavement , where the bishop lies with cloven skull , and his dead warriors around him , in the quiet of the holy Christmas night.
And four days afterwards the bells toll for a funeral in the convent of person_5.
The murdered bishop and the slain warriors and priests are displayed under a black canopy , surrounded by candelabra decked with crape.
There lies the dead man , in the black cloak wrought with silver ; the crosier in the powerless hand that was once so mighty.
The incense rises in clouds , and the monks chant the funeral hymn.
It sounds like a wail -- it sounds like a sentence of wrath and condemnation that must be heard far over the land , carried by the wind -- sung by the wind -- the wail that sometimes is silent , but never dies ; for ever again it rises in song , singing even into our own time this legend of the Bishop of person_5 and his hard nephew.
It is heard in the dark night by the frightened husbandman , driving by in the heavy sandy road past the convent of person_5.
It is heard by the sleepless listener in the thickly-walled rooms at person_5.
And not only to the ear of superstition is the sighing and the tread of hurrying feet audible in the long echoing passages leading to the convent-door that has long been locked.
The door still seems to open , and the lights seem to flame in the brazen candlesticks ; the fragrance of incense arises ; the church gleams in its ancient splendor ; and the monks sing and say the mass over the slain bishop , who lies there in the black silver-embroidered mantle , with the crozier in his powerless hand ; and on his pale proud forehead gleams the red wound like fire , and there burn the worldly mind and the wicked thoughts.
Sink down into his grave -- into oblivion -- ye terrible shapes of the times of old ! Hark to the raging of the angry wind , sounding above the rolling sea.
A storm approaches without , calling aloud for human lives.
The sea has not put on a new mind with the new time.
This night it is a horrible pit to devour up lives , and to-morrow , perhaps , it may be a glassy mirror -- even as in the old time that we have buried.
Sleep sweetly , if thou canst sleep ! Now it is morning.
The new time flings sunshine into the room.
The wind still keeps up mightily.
A wreck is announced -- as in the old time.
During the night , down yonder by Loekken , the little fishing village with the red-tiled roofs -- we can see it up here from the window -- a ship has come ashore.
It has struck , and is fast imbedded in the sand ; but the rocket apparatus has thrown a rope on board , and formed a bridge from the wreck to the mainland ; and all on board were saved , and reached the land , and were wrapped in warm blankets ; and to-day they are invited to the farm at the convent of person_5.
In comfortable rooms they encounter hospitality and friendly faces.
They are addressed in the language of their country , and the piano sounds for them with melodies of their native land ; and before these have died away , and the chord has been struck , the wire of thought , that reaches to the land of the sufferers , announces that they are rescued.
Then their anxieties are dispelled ; and at even they join in the dance at the feast given in the great hall at person_5.
Waltzes and Styrian dances are given , and Danish popular songs , and melodies of foreign lands in these modern times.
Blessed be thou , new time ! Speak thou of summer and of purer gales ! Send thy sunbeams gleaming into our hearts and thoughts ! On thy glowing canvas let them be painted -- the dark legends of the rough hard times that are past !"
Once upon a time there was a child who was willful , and would not do at her mother wished.
For this reason God had no pleasure in her , and let her become ill , and no doctor could do her any good , and in a short time she lay on her death-bed.
When she had been lowered into her grave , and the earth was spread over her , all at once her arm came out again , and stretched upwards , and when they had put it in and spread fresh earth over it , it was all to no purpose , for the arm always came out again.
Then the mother herself was obliged to go to the grave , and strike the arm with a rod , and when she had done that , it was drawn in , and then at last the child had rest beneath the ground"
by Brothers Grimm A man and his wife were once sitting by the door of their house , and they had a roasted chicken set before them , and were about to eat it together.
Then the man saw that his aged father was coming , and hastily took the chicken and hid it , for he would not permit him to have any of it.
The old man came , took a drink , and went away.
Now the son wanted to put the roasted chicken on the table again , but when he took it up , it had become a great toad , which jumped into his face and sat there and never went away again , and if any one wanted to take it off , it looked venomously at him as if it would jump in his face , so that no one would venture to touch it.
And the ungrateful son was forced to feed the toad every day , or else it fed itself on his face ; and thus he went about the world without knowing rest"
Three women were changed into flowers which grew in the field , but one of them was allowed to be in her own home at night.
Then once when day was drawing near , and she was forced to go back to her companions in the field and become a flower again , she said to her husband , `` If thou wilt come this afternoon and gather me , I shall be set free and henceforth stay with thee"
And he did so.
Now the question is , how did her husband know her , for the flowers were exactly alike , and without any difference ? Answer : as she was at her home during the night and not in the field , no dew fell on her as it did on the others , and by this her husband knew her"
